then we're live all right sir what's
going on man
very well thank you first of all thank
you very much for the coffee machine and
this all that it's turmeric
I used to say tumeric I used to not even
think there was an R in there for some
strange reason well in Hawaii it's
Olenna so it just depends on which
country you're in yeah it's a what it
what is it's a root right yeah to the
ginger family and is it why they call it
Elena is that up that's just why in name
I mean the Indians probably have another
you know in India it's probably one of
the most use you know our roots they
it's in every air air all Indian foods
it's full of it yeah that's really
healthy for you right it's great for
inflammation yeah it will gut health -
mm-hmm
so you gave me this layer superfoods
coffee machine and I'm addicted to this
now this coffee with turmeric I've never
had it before well there's some other
minerals and stuff in there too so if
you're addicted to it it's because
there's things that are good for you
yeah I got crave it yeah like it seems
like something well your body wants it
yeah you know I think sometimes people
think cravings are based on negative
like oh I just it's bad because I crave
it but I think cravings are natural I
think it went but it's you know we abuse
it when we use garbage but when you're
craving something like that I mean
there's you know a bunch of minerals and
a bunch of good fats and there's a bunch
of good stuff in there
yeah it's hard to tell though right like
sometimes you crave sugar sometimes you
crave ice cream yes there's some
cravings that are not good
exactly other ones are exactly but the
system of craving I believe what is part
of a natural human thing that we have
that was meant to crave good things but
we abuse it with what because sugar and
nature is meant to be safe means it's
safe to eat
right right right so so yeah so that we
so that but then we abuse it by
disguising a bunch of garbage with sugar
and then people think oh that's great to
eat that makes sense yeah cuz whenever I
lift weights I crave protein ya crave
like fish or chicken or steak or
something yeah well you're yeah you're
beating up muscles you want protein yeah
but it's an instantaneous craving yeah
it's like right away I'm like ah gotta
eat something
so you've got me cranking the sauna up
your wife told me the you crank yours up
to 220 degrees is that real that's real
god damn man I get to 210 I'm like this
is how long do you do it to 20 well it
depends on how how cold you go into it
oh so if you're if your body if your
core temperature is way down you can you
know it if you if you got off a
stationary bike and your core was nice
and hot and you went in there you you
know you'd be lucky to get 10 or 10 or
15 minutes out if you come out of a ice
tub or you've been outside with minimal
clothing you could go in there and for
20 minutes at 220 so it just depends on
you know where your what your court you
know where your core is is that how you
do it you do from a nice path I will do
it from a nice path that just you know I
think you just break it up it's just
like anything any kind of training you
just want to constantly stress the
system and if you're used to a certain
pattern you know go into it hot like if
you go into a sauna hot coming off of
some cardio that it's twice as hot if
you go in cold then you can go for a
longer period of time and same with the
ice I mean if you go into the ice cold
the ice will tap you if you go in hot
you can be there so they're doing some
studies now on hot yoga out of Harvard
they're trying to figure out if hot yoga
mimics the positive health effects of
sauna and so the idea is that you know
because you're straining and resisting
it's much it feels much hotter than 104
degrees yes Donna there was one hundred
four hundred five degrees would be
nothing for sure but yoga at 105 degrees
is pretty rough rough well because again
core temperatures so we do some
stationary bikes in the sauna and that I
mean that's just it's like you can
always up the ante you know it's like a
weight stack just slap more LED on there
and we'll do we'll do we'll go in this
with an assault bike I have an assault
bike in one of the saunas and we'll
tranq that thing up and you know I mean
you're lucky if we might be five or ten
minutes and you're you're but I think
you know we're such good adapters or our
you know our adaptation is amazing and
you do some stuff for a while I think
you do it pretty soon you're like oh I
can handle a you know an assault by
again at a survivable pace you know you
survive that's a rough machine rough
machine I have the rogue version yeah
echo bike yeah that thing is fantastic I
love it for sure
that's all for limps yeah all four of
them's it's one of my all-time fit too
Tabata I got Tabata specs on it my
all-time favorite method of cardio
pressure for sure well low impact on the
system you're not beating everything the
joints mm every all four things are
working you can throw in some nose
breathing in there or something and
breath holding intervals or something
just to you know we're heat and
suffering you were explaining nose
breathing to me out there yeah how nose
breathing is better better for you
because of well first of all you were
designed to breathe your sinuses and
your nose were designed for breathing
and so you actually admit a gas in your
sinuses from my understanding a gas
called nitric oxide which is a
vasodilator it helps you absorb oxygen
so by breathing through your nose plus
you reduce the amount of intake that you
have and that gets you co2 tolerance so
all of a sudden you're breathing less
volume I mean you know from the fight
game as soon as a guy goes to mouth
breathing you're like this is toast you
know that right that's your first
giveaway so your ability to deal with
stress and breathe through your nose I
mean everybody should be breathing
through their nose in their sleep
walking around I mean we somehow we
became mouth breathers in the last 200
years and they're not sure why there's a
great book called the oxygen advantage
by Patrick MacDougall that he actually
is on our board of xpt but he he you
know kind of realized that our issues
really stem from mouth breathing chronic
mouth breathing which is scrubbing our
co2 and keeping our co2 levels down
which is the marker to absorb oxygen so
when your co2 levels are down you don't
absorb the oxygen from your bloodstream
the cells don't take it as soon as the
co2 goes up then the then the body
starts to pull it out of the blood
interesting so smaller amounts by
breathing through the nose actually
makes you absorb more oxygen well it
keeps your tolerance yeah but definitely
gets your co2 tolerant up but the
smaller volume helps your body become
more tolerant of higher levels of co2
but the note the sinuses themselves emit
that helps the lung absorb the oxygen is
and that's you know that's what I've
been led to understand I had a broken
nose and tell us 40 my nose was useless
I couldn't get anything out of it it had
been broken like who knows how many
times yeah it was all the inside was all
caked up with scar tissue and calcified
and when I got it fixed it was like the
world changed it was like I couldn't do
that I just couldn't breathe out of my
nose yeah I would go to yoga class he'd
tell me to breathe out oh I knows I'm
like I don't have one yeah I could smell
farts yeah that's it I could smell gas
and gasoline like it has to be rough
yeah for me to smell it yeah now I have
a real nose yeah I always encourage
people pull it if you have a broken nose
please get that deviated septum fixed
well you know surprising if you start to
nose breathe even if you have struggle
because of the that gas helps you open
up a lot of people I mean you know I'm
not saying that you have that but a lot
of people actually will gain volume
after a few weeks of forcing themselves
in nose breathe they'll actually start
to open up all of that that system does
that make sense so it's your body just
adapt and try it forces it to open but
ya know it's all about nose breathing
you know I didn't think I just thought
it was just more difficult so it's
probably a good thing to do for
discipline absolutely and if you can do
your cardio and and retain a nose breath
you're you're you have another gear
because any when you go to mouth it's
like you got a it's like having a you
know blower in your car or something you
open up they you know you open up the
air and it's a whole new game so by
being able to sustain a high-output up
with nose breathing then and like I said
it's all about the tolerance for co2
it's how much co2 you can handle in your
system you know like that's why
altitudes screws people up because the
co2 jacks up and they don't have a
tolerance and then you get all wonky and
you feel like crap yeah it's it's
interesting you're talking about
cravings because one of the things that
I've noticed since I've been I cranked
up the to the the temperature in the
sauna for the first week to 200 degrees
that I've been doing 210 for the last
few days and you crave it now I crave it
like when I'm at home I'm like can't
wait to get back to that goddamn song
again meanwhile when I'm in there I
can't wait to get out it's weird
there what then lies the struggle yeah I
mean the ice is the same way like I
an addiction to ice and I you know
recently I've been just came back from
Hawaii and I'm like dealing with this
ice machines broken down I'm waiting for
the new one I keep calling the guy and
go hey what are you gonna put the thing
in and he's thinking it's like a luxury
like yeah you know you got it what do
you mean an ice machine at your house
for him because I have a to like
restaurant sized ones of them yeah well
I have a lot of friends but buddy he's
like what do you need that for and I'm
like I'd like just just get you know I
got the tubs I'm like I'm but my body
craves you get it listen your body is
just craving the things that are
bringing the hormones and do it I mean
it's like why you crave exercise you
know I have a theory that the reason why
people are hooked to cardio activity is
because it's forced breathing that
people because you wouldn't willingly
just sit on your floor and breathe heavy
for an hour so your body's like okay
let's go for rent like let's go you need
to run you better run you better run and
then you go run and then the body gets
that absorption of all gets a tox again
then it really wants the feel I feel
like there's probably several factors
because also I feel like when I'm really
consistent with my workouts I know that
I'm gaining momentum and I know like I
you know I'm consistent everything's
going great I mean great shape right now
I got to keep pushing this yeah that
feels like it's it feels like a like
just just positive results are being
achieved and you can sort of get
addicted to success well and but also to
the body the adaptation if you ever put
yourself under some real severe stress
in multiple days the first day you feel
like you're not gonna be able to make it
the second day you're feeling you know
like you can't really can't make it the
third pretty soon the fourth day the
body is like oh this is the new house
we're living in like this is where we're
at okay well we're gonna adapt and
modify and then pretty soon you're doing
even more your than you were doing the
first couple days and you're not even
feeling it yeah and so it's like we're
that we're an amazing an amazing machine
you know we're an amazing creature just
the way we can handle the load and
especially in this in our new world
where we you know don't have to do much
you know Eddie Izzard is yeah the
comedian yeah yeah yeah he he ran a
series of marathons all around the UK
yeah I did one in South Africa and he
was on the two weeks ago and he was
telling me that when
you first started doing it like the
first few were really hard but then your
body's like well this is what we do we
run marathons and then like day three
day four things started picking up day
five and by the time day ten came along
he's just running for sure
yeah for sure I got a friend ran 125 in
a row and then he ran the Boston after
that and then he had a fight in Vegas
and he ran a marathon in the morning and
then he like knocked the guy out in the
third round and after I mean he says he
made a marathon in the morning and then
fought that day holy shit that's a cool
this Tom Jones yeah muy Thai seven-time
white dye world champion Jesus Christ
Tony Jones yeah yeah fuck man you run a
marathon today fight magic dude knocked
you out yeah fuck yeah muy Thai fuck
this Tom Joe that's crazy so he got 125
marathons in a row so 125 days of
marathons to Boston and then he ran the
Boston when he got there
he ran across the country what he ran
across the country that's how he got
there so he did a marathon I took a nap
yeah eat some food ran a marathon taken
a piece of what the fuck just shows you
that you know that ability to adapt and
what we can you know what we can do it's
amazing how the body will just when you
push it and you keep it'll just be like
it'll ramp I mean and I think for us in
this in our new world that we live in
that seems so crazy but probably in the
past you were like oh yeah well we went
all the way down to South America and we
did some hunting down there and then we
you know Trek a marathon or two per day
and we came all the way back to Alaska
you know like right you know that was
just our life yeah well especially when
they used to persistence hunt you know
when they would just run an animal down
yeah animals yeah are great for Sprint's
yeah especially like gazelles and things
along those lines but you know what you
know what the real technique really is
based on is that are breathing that
breathing is what gives us we have an
ability to adjust our breath so we can
actually adjust how many times we
breathe per motion
where a lot of these animals are
breathing for a rep every rep is a
breath so every step is and we can do
multiple steps in one breath and so that
why our that's why we can outrun a horse
at the end of the day you always see the
in the cowboy movies the horse is laying
dead in the desert and the guys still
going along but because the those
mammals are breathing every breath is a
rep and you imagine how tiring that is
like you're a horse right right they're
breathing every and we're we running
full speed but we can just do a breath
and then do five or six or eight reps
and that gives us that endurance that's
why we can run those gazelles down
because those guys are just breathe
they're their breath down that's
interesting well I'm always very
appreciative of guys like you that are
in my age range your speed limit yeah
yeah limit your but you're also very fit
and very active and you keep going
whereas a lot of guys around 55 like
it's a wrap turn off the car yeah
there's not much in the tank and so I'd
like to see guys that are in my age
bracket a little bit ahead of me like oh
he's going go I can keep going to go
full spin I think a lot of that is just
thinking and knowing that you can
because I think so many people feel like
hey I'm 45 it's time to settle down it's
time to relax
you know and wind down this exercise you
know you know I think but daily I think
people use that as just a disclaimer do
not do the work it's like now I'm 45 so
now I don't now I don't I'm too old
yeah I thought just said that's for me I
think that's a way out right that's a
way to go hey I don't want to do the
work anymore and you know I have my one
of my best friends just passed this last
year and he was 85 when he passed and
and he was crying he did the Ironman 10
times the first time was when he was 50
and then he's done the race across
America three times I mean does just he
was just an animal bang iron everyday
ride the bike just just a 85 he was
doing all that still an animal an animal
tell the day died I was like and his
name was and this is the irony was his
name was Don Wildman and so like that's
his given name
no I'm serious that's amazing
has given me I go anybody name the wild
man's got to keep it up but he was you
know like you're talking about when you
can see it right when you can what does
it look like when I see I mean you look
at it's interesting to see in sports
right now we have a lot of athletes
right now that are operating they're the
oldest that you know that they that
we've seen and I believe a lot of it has
to do with the fact that that you know
that they have some examples but they're
also not take accepting that hey now
you're too old like that is because
that's a decision like hey oh now you're
too old oh yeah you know you're gonna
keep doing that it's like yeah you're
gonna do it all the way until they throw
the dirt on the box you know like we're
going all the way full speed until we're
not and then when we're not we're not
wooded mr. wild man died oh it was
eventually it was a cancer that he
couldn't get fight through chemo and so
but anybody was within like a couple
weeks like he just was like shut it down
he was at one point he was like the he
was a little bit like they ever ready
bunny and and humpty-dumpty
like he would just like double knee
surgery like within like you had a
broken leg and he'd be on a stationary
bike with a crutch on one of the pedals
and he'd be pedaling and crutching well
on the other leg I mean he was just
absolutely out of his mind again and the
doctors be like oh you're healing faster
than a 30 year old I'm like yeah why
he's because he's just a car deal
monster and so he's getting that blood
flow and and he we were helicopter
snowboarding in Chile this last summer
not this one but the one before and I
was with the run with the guide and the
guy goes hey you know I was your buddy
and I'm like he's 84 and he looked at me
and he's like yeah I know I know me but
how old is he and I'm like he's 84 and
he's like yeah he's 84 like check it out
buddy he's going fakie and like I mean
you know he was but he was our you know
he was our poster child he's our guy we
look like we go I mean and I've had a
few of those I think Menino that I've
been exposed to in my life were those
guys that just those are the guys that I
always admired I always admired the guys
that just were always going full-speed
and never never circuit you know they
didn't sir come
all that all that pressure from society
like hey you're old now you can still do
that what do you think you're a kid just
all the bullshit that you can feed into
and and be a victim of yeah we have
these preconceived notions of what it's
like to be 30 what it's like to be 50
what it's like to be 85 and some people
like yeah you can fuck that I'm not
interested yeah because they're never
looking at age as some as some like
feeling like they're like they're never
going all 35 you feel like this at 40
all you're slowing down no you know you
just you lay down it's like you know I
always say if people stop doing
something like they go I'm gonna retire
now man I'm getting old in the sport
it's really not that they're getting old
it's just that they've made a decision
that they don't want to do anymore and
they just used an age as a like a
disclaimer like hey I'm good you know
yes for some folks I think it's a mental
tiredness
keeping up their enthusiasm is probably
the difficult thing and that's why I
think a lot of people look forward to
retirement right they look forward to
those golden years where they just
holding hands and walking towards the
sunset just jump on a sword I mean it's
like at that point you're just so then
you're just alive dead you know you're
just you're you're dead but you're alive
like but I think where some people look
forward to some day where they don't
have to struggle then they can't be on
earth yeah you can't believe you can't I
mean like I'm sorry the system is a
little bit designed to struggle
everything that we do that's good for us
as has a certain amount of stress it's
like you want to get that sauna you want
to get on that salt bike you want to
jump in that ring you want to hike that
mountain it's all stress driven and the
fact is that's our universe that's the
universe we live in and and so if you
got some other and and you know and I
appreciate let's hack our way through it
and then I think there's waste that
hacking supports us we can hack our way
to but only support the things that
we're doing yeah but thinking that you
can just hack your way through and not
actually suffer it's impossible you just
think you don't appreciate the good
times unless you suffer absolutely
outside I think I appreciate food more
when I
work out I appreciate life more I like
doing things more at when I struggle
absolutely I can tell you I know sitting
down is an incredible thing like when
you go wow this feels so good yeah
because you're straight yeah for sure
but a lot of people don't recognize that
that's a lesson I think people really
need to get drilled into their head it's
it's not that tricky right this isn't
rocket science this isn't right
elaborate it's available for everybody
doesn't move yah-tchi move just keep
going drive it hard yeah and I can
promise you you'll you'll you'll sleep
better like everybody we have a lot of
sleeping issues right now and I I'm just
like well people aren't tired enough yet
my daughter was like oh yeah you know
having a hard time sleeping and now
she's been banging tennis balls seven
hours a day and I'm tasty and I don't
problem sleeping now right it's just
been real well I'm like yeah it and I
you know I think there's a lot of it's
this lack of movement we're just we just
stopped moving yeah and then your brain
races because your body's not getting
exhausted so you develop all this
anxiety and all this weirdness
hunter-gatherers did not have the need
for ambien
I guarantee it yeah there was the other
day there was no melatonin
yeah the melatonin was was you know
created in their retina from staring at
the Sun in the early morning light I
mean that's they were up they were
moving and they're up early and they
were and they were and they were going
until dark and that dark it was time to
lay down and then you just did that and
you were not sleep issues weren't a
problem back then it's it's interesting
I'm learning from my dog because my dog
is up first thing in the morning when he
signs up and then when when there's it
starts getting dark out and once he eats
man he's just laying down he's like oh
shit over here oh yeah
well I'm constantly studying my dog
would have brought him but he's getting
his nails done today yeah well because
he's just ripping up the floor he's got
some hooks but but I watch him never
leaves his bed without stretching first
in the morning first thing down up dog
down done full up down dog and then hit
full speed 80 miles an hour like little
rocket and then just right to the couch
in lay down and then just be totally
sleeping and then just up full speed
to the Kachin lady hi I'm gonna I go
there's something to be said about that
thing a little stretch full speed lay
down
full speed lay down like but no warm-up
no warmup
that's no warmup but people need warmup
do you agree I don't know why I don't
know I don't know but I don't know about
warm up I think warm up is being alive I
think you know I mean I mean thing
what's that what about if you can only
lift something heavy do you think that
you should warm the muscles up first
well I think if you set the thing up and
you put everything on and you set it all
up you're already starting to warm up
and if you're psyching up and getting
your brain ready to do something
aggressive I think that you've already
the Adrenaline's already going and you
got a lot of stuff I mean I know if you
just get up off a chair and walk over
and try to grab a giant bar with a bunch
of weight on it and lift it that might
be a problem but that wouldn't be you
would never do that in nature when you
were gonna lift something heavy it
usually there'd be some lead up to it
whether you walk to the place that you
were gonna and you got the thing and you
know I mean you know I don't know I
don't know about about because I think
there's mixed opinions about you know
people say don't stretch before you
workout and that's been the most recent
thing before it used to be oh yeah I'll
loosen up before you workout I'm like I
mean my dog does down dog you know up
dog down dog and that's only after he's
laying down mm-hmm and then he just goes
full speed I mean well I know that if I
do Muay Thai if I'm hitting the bag or
something like that I don't go hard at
first yeah break a sweat yeah I do the
first two rounds I'm just shadow boxing
yeah I'm just putting I mean I don't
fully full blast the bag until I'm
sweaty yeah but that's just your
thoughts I mean I just I feel like
that's the way you're supposed to do
that's what I've always been told yeah
what I mean I think that I think I would
connect that more to part of is because
of what we are now mm-hmm because my
sedentary and because we're not we're
not what we you know we are not fully in
our in our nature essence we're not
we're not wild you know if we were wild
I think we wouldn't need as much any
warm-up we were in your wild you don't
need a warm-up but I think because we're
not moving as much because if you're
moving all the time you'd already be
warmed up
they would like to see a human from like
5,000 years ago I'd love to be around
like a hunter-gatherer and see what they
look like their pain threshold was crazy
first of all their what they could
endure you know their pain threshold was
just open arm and like we'd still be
operating with broken stuff no problem
yeah what did they do they just kind of
like tied it up or something I don't
know what that was that was when they
advanced into medical right yeah a lot
of them probably just hobbled around
until it didn't hurt well that's where
inflammation came in mm-hmm everything
got inflamed so they would hold it you
know naturally the body would hold it in
position so that you
I mean inflammation is designed to kind
of immobilize it cast it would you know
if it was your ankle it just gets so
swollen it couldn't move but they'd
still be on it they'd still be rolling
it just they wouldn't be moving it
around because the body would naturally
do that the future of humans does not
look so rosy when you really think about
how we're slowly deteriorating becoming
these gelatinous balls of meat and what
issue and the bodies are connected to
the brains and so that's why we have
some mind issues too because at the end
of the day the bodies aren't functioning
correctly so that's not feeding the
brain correctly and so the brain that's
why we I mean I think that when you're
really physically well then your
thoughts are physically well I think
it's definitely it definitely helps but
people do not like to hear that do you
notice that yeah absolutely
Dave you don't I don't even like you
like you seem like a happy guy you don't
you're on any medication but some people
who are yeah want to think like no no I
have a medical problem and I need this
even if they don't exercise think oh no
no you don't understand and then what if
I say okay but do you ever exercise they
get mad at you absolutely they get mad
but absolutely here oh you're suggesting
I'm lazy you're suggesting I brought
this upon myself because of my behavior
no I have a disease no way again I think
that's a disclaimer that's a way out to
not have to take be accountable be
accountable like hey that if I was out
doing moving and doing things that it
would actually make this go away you
know I mean I I think that you know I
think a lot of a lot of depress
is connected to the you know I believe
ice-t Ising could cure a big portion of
depression just because of the hormonal
response to the system and that you know
I mean normally when people are
depressed is connected to some sort of
hormone imbalance yes and to have a
doctor try to figure out what that is
it's pretty elaborate it's very tricky
well they've shown in studies that
regular exercise is as effective at the
SSRIs more more exactly yeah exactly I
think also diet because of inflammation
like the inflammation for sure leads to
all sorts of different ailments which
could lead to a depressed feeling a
feeling of unwellness well just eat a
bunch of garbage for a week and see how
you feel
yeah I can I'd be depressed or just
drink some so the sauna thing what is
the benefit of getting it that hot
honestly my problem is is that you know
if if a lot is good then even more is
better than you know that's a little bit
no I'm just saying like you know if ten
is good then 20 is got to be better even
better but you know I think part of it
is the natural evolution if you're
sitting there doing time at you know 180
degrees and you and you can go in there
and you're you know you're hanging out
and then just 20 minutes it's 30 minutes
so you might as well just try to turn it
up and and and my understanding is that
the Europeans I mean I'd you know you
look at a sweat lodge and you I mean it
ain't 180 you know if you go into any
kind of sweat lodge if you go to Europe
all the saunas are a much hotter like
it's like you go into a rush and you
know steam thing it's not like those
things are you know III think that
they're pretty conservative with it I
think I think you just listen to your
body if you go in there and you start
hallucinating you might want to step out
you know you might be like hey you know
maybe I eat something wrong or maybe I
need to just give my body a break but I
think you just use your you know use
your you're your own feeling as your
guide and and you know I know that
if I if I'm hide properly hydrated
before I go my tolerance is
substantially greater like I can really
measure it I can be hydrated go in and
be like oh yeah no problem
and I can go and dehydrate it and feel
wonky and be like yeah I'm not as good
so it makes sense yeah I definitely have
adapted I've definitely adapted at 200
because when I go to yoga now it does
not seem nearly as hot 105 degrees even
at the end of the class might this is
interesting I was thinking to the last
class was like this doesn't feel that
bad
exactly yeah well that shows you right
there that you're abducting and then all
of a sudden your tolerance you know the
thing I really like about the sauna is I
think it really plays into into
overheating as an athlete mm-hmm it over
you know you're over heat and that's
usually when you have issues right now
as you overheat menu and then you your
performances is encumbered right you
just it and so the more your tolerance
is for the heat the less the more you
can handle overheating pretty soon you
don't overheat and then you just don't
have that because that that's one of the
factors it gets an athlete I think is in
any performances you overheat if whether
you're fighting or marathon running or
basketball any any sport when you start
to overheat your that's usually when
you're you're toast you know you're done
you start losing your motor skills and
you're tall if you can build that
tolerance up and I think like you said
hey are you going 200 and 220 and then
all of a sudden you're at Yoga you know
you're at hot yoga and it's a hundred
and five and you're just like you know
Sam's a mouthing yeah it really does
make a giant different has only been
doing it at 200 for a couple months now
yeah really in 210 like four I just said
the last few days yeah but you have been
doing it this hot for how long well I've
been doing it for a while like I've been
doing it's been out over the last couple
years you know I did one I did a
protocol that I heard on dr. Rhonda
Patrick's show and she and it was
holding a one hour a one hour straight
at somewhere between 170 to 180 whoa so
that's another and you if you do that
ten days in a row I was doing it twice a
day for ten days in a row and you're
supposed to get like some six
900% hormonal boost like your whole body
just goes into this radical hormones 170
to 180 someone that interesting 171 say
one hour straight and I was doing that
and I did it twice a day for ten days in
a row and and and uh and and and at the
end of that you got a different gear
it's like all of a sudden you got OD and
you're in your in your gearbox
interesting well it definitely increases
the red blood cell count correct
absolutely yeah I mean I don't know all
the science I just usually go off of you
know I usually go off of instinct and
then and then I and then sometimes it
gets validated by by science and and so
at the end you know you
I mean I I I think and I and there
really isn't any any Studies on it but I
truly believe that that that he is
better after performance for recovery
than ice I mean I think ice is
comfortable I had my uh I don't have the
whole thing about paying a relationship
with pain and and I was doing a thing
with I had a hip hip replacement and I
was set up to do all this icing before
and and then I learned that icing
suppress the the healing hormone igf-1
there's a healing hormone that helps
your body heal and pain is kicks that
hormone off that's how the body knows so
when you suppress pain you stop that
healing so you go a nice you suppress
that hormonal release of igf-1 it's the
healing hormone and all of a sudden it's
gonna slow your healing down so if you
do it because it makes you comfortable
like hey if you've been you know running
around and you're overheating and you go
an ice tub because it feels good that's
one thing but if you think that it's
gonna benefit you I'm not sure I don't
know yet I think he could be the better
benefit because you've got heat shock
proteins which deal with damage cells
and for all that stuff and I'm not
listen I this is just stuff that I hear
that I'm feeling and then disclaimer
we're both yeah yeah yeah oh yeah Dennis
Miller this is my opinion I could be
wrong of course so hey you know the but
you know so that that that and and and
then they talk about growth hormone that
your body produces growth hormone in the
heat right as another one of the side
effects and so
from again from my understanding and I'm
not a doctor so I when I hear that I go
well then heat should be the thing you
do coz after every game every football
every basketball player every athlete
goes right to the ice town yeah I don't
know if you're going there for comfort
okay cool that's great but if you think
that that's actually the thing that's
really benefiting you know really gonna
bring you the best recovery maybe it
maybe heats gonna bring you the best
recovery but it's gonna be miserable cuz
last thing you want to do after you
finish a workout is go sit in the hot
box right just not ya gonna be happy but
these but for injuries though for
injuries they say you should reduce the
inflammation but if what you're saying
that that's interesting right well the
more pain the more you know you know the
old say no pain no gain
mmm-hmm no further no pain no gain no
pain no gain I mean everything's painful
like if you go in the heat it's just
comfortable you're gonna work out you
get sore I mean no pain no gain so if we
go with the old that old you know no
pain no gain I believe that the pain is
associated with the healing because of
that hormonal response that pain brings
into you so I would attribute like I had
a fast recovery but I I attribute some
of it is because that I I was not
suppressing any of the pain so if I
think if you take pain meds mmm-hmm
that's suppressing healing so so if you
say hey I'm so uncomfortable
I got a pop pain pills to endure this
because it's so hard well then just
extend the healing that you're just
gonna and and the more you suppress the
pain no matter what's way you do it with
it's ice pain pills whatever it is I
believe the longer you extend the
healing the more pain you can take I
mean inflammation is the marker for that
healing hormone so again reduce
information I don't know if that's
that's again I I would like to a doctor
and somebody to tell me that really has
a study that's that they know that
they've really looked at to tell me that
that's really working that that the
icing I mean if you do it immediately
right when you get you know you snap
your ankle and you go right in an ice
tub bucket and keep it from fully uh you
know in flaming may be in in that
instantaneous but doing it over days and
I think that's just pain I think that's
just comfortable make you more
comfortable that's interesting because
you always see basketball players
with ice and their shoulders ice on
their knees like right after games is
they offer clay humph guru
yeah I was just thinking they have to
play so many games in a row though yeah
but it's also comfort right comfort like
I mean I think it's because it feels
good if your shoulders all jacked up and
you numb it you know just like a pain
pill would do and this is just a topical
numbing icing just creating a the you
know the guy that that created rice
which is like rest ice compression
elevation he came out last year and said
I was all wrong so no he did that guy
came out in just here well then the last
two couple years he should he feel
really bad well so he came out and said
you know that he he was you know that he
he takes it all back so you know I don't
know I mean I just think well I think
there's no absolutes III don't I but I
I'd be interested I've been trying to
learn about it like hey can you really
tell me what really is the best thing or
maybe its heat nice combo you know that
that heat nice combo because that does
so much flushing to the system you know
squeeze down the ice squeezes everything
and then all of a sudden the heat expand
so you're contraction expansion and that
I know that that is a you know but that
takes energy to that tires you down more
then you know then then the heat but the
you you do do ice bath heat ice baths
Heath back to back yeah I'll do like
sometimes I'll take I'll do it on a
Sunday I'll do like seven rounds of that
stuff you know no main rally just get
you get you know your well that's why we
want the intensity right so the colder
it is the shorter you have to be there
and the hotter it is the shorter you
have to be there right so if you're
hanging out so if you could get it down
to 15 minutes and you know three to five
minutes in let's say three minutes in
the ice and 15 minutes in the in the
sauna then all of a sudden you know
let's say 20 minutes around then you're
talking on then here you here you go you
got you know two and a half three hours
you know that's why one seven into 180
you do a whole hour yeah yeah that's a
different protocol that was just a when
I heard about and then I just try I
tried it but part of it is cuz hard to
stay in that thing for an hour straight
at 170
I mean it's that's
not an easy task are you listening to
anything in there are you you just just
the beat of my heart music yeah I'll
listen to music or something like that
or a podcast or get somebody else to
suffer with me
yeah just said get some try to try to
suck hard try to get somebody else and
maybe they come in for half and then
they're back out and then they come in
for the other part or something when I'm
on the road I try to get comedians to
come in the song with me at a hotel and
it's only like 150 160 like I'm out like
you're out 15 minutes see shit it's all
but it's all what year it's it's in your
brain it's in your mind it's it's we're
so you know comforts masticated words oh
it's hot it's cold it's this and you
know we're just we're as this something
that's you or is this the the whole
surfing community are the end of this
kind of stuff no I mean I I you know
it's interesting is is that because I'm
a surfer obviously everybody thinks oh
you know all the surfers and you're
friends with the surfers I'm really
actually I'm not I really am kind of
outside of the community itself I have
sir friends at surf but I'm so not part
of you know and in my career I haven't
been part of the industry of surfing and
yeah really so in a way I'm I mean I
have friends that surf that come and do
it and we've definitely there's been
some influence in - I mean surfers in
general at least the the good ones are
you know training and and and using
these ice heat protocols and so they're
they're they're uh you know they're
they're aware and and motivated but but
surfing in general is you know I mean I
don't even know what half those guys are
doing well I would think they would be
looking to you I mean if if I was a
young surfer and I said man I fucking
love surfing I'd like to be doing this
when I'm 55
what's Laird Hamilton doing yeah but I
don't know I think sometimes the you
know I mean I think for a lot of
obviously it's changed now but in the
past I mean you know and it happens a
lot with the younger people in general
is this like don't tell me what to do I
can eat whatever I want a new whenever
you know I can go to Taco Bell and
Burger King and and still and stay up
all night and still you know rip you
know or do or do my thing and and it's
true probably in every sport and then
and then you know I always say there's a
thousand you know 20 year-olds and then
there's five hundred thirty years olds
and then there's two hundred fifty forty
year olds and then there's like you know
and then you just go as you go and
there's less and less and you know I
always love that the term the victory
through attrition you know when using
the last guy if you're this the last guy
and you're standing you don't have to be
any good you just win
you're like the winner like you won
you're the only guy left yeah just you
you've been following this just to
improve your physical performance just
for life absolutely absolutely and and
you know I think I really cherish
feeling good
I cherish feeling good like I really
enjoy feeling good and so that drives me
towards you know wanting and like I said
either whether I had Paul checked
years ago I went and did an assessment
with him and you know interesting guy
very yeah and it watching his stuff a
lot online yeah and and uh him and I had
an instant connection and and but you
know I love the philosophical approach
to certain things like he said and this
had a huge impact on me you know 25
years ago or he was like you know the
three white devils are white flour white
sugar and white milk and I'm like hmm
okay
drink that yeah yeah yeah yeah just put
cacao in it but if you put in raw cacao
and raw milk together that's a powerful
drink yeah that's for real but if you
put dead milk homogenized pasteurized
yeah just abused and then you and then
you take some really bad cacao if
there's any at all in it with a bunch of
who knows you can't pronounce it you
know he said if it wasn't here ten
thousand years ago don't eat it if you
can't pronounce it don't eat it you know
and then the three white Devils I mean
that's a philosophical hard time with
turmeric though yeah why let's just say
the word oh struggle pronounce yeah yeah
yeah but it was your 10,000 years ago so
you got some fine yeah that's a good
piece of
vice though yeah but just to look at
food that way it's like people go what
your diet I go plants and animals you
know plants and animals like what you
don't like don't make it difficult don't
be like well I eat this and I think that
the stress around that stuff is crazy
but IIIi really believe that to truly be
to have optimum performance and to be
and to be optimum that you have to have
the whole every spoke in the tire that
you need every single spoke that you
have to have a good relations with your
family you got to have love and you got
to have good things with the kids and
you got to have friends and you got to
have your health and you got to sleep
well and you got to be hydrated and you
got to work out and you got it and you
got to have a you know your business
thing and you got to have I think you
just have to have all these things to
really have balance and I think if you
if one of the spokes isn't tight that
there's a bump in the wheel and then
you're just not gonna I don't truly
believe that that you you're performing
at your optimum because you need your
head needs to be clear when you go into
your performance whatever that looks
like I think that's excellent advice I
think that makes a lot of sense and it
definitely keeps your mind clear you
know you have your bases covered covered
you're not just you're not here but
there but somewhere else I mean and I
know I've dealt with not being having
all the spokes good and I know that the
how that feels and I know when it's good
you're clear you're good you're you're
you're and it's how we're meant to be I
mean we're meant to have that be real
clean we're meant to have that there be
some sense balance not to have it yeah
that's why I mean even overworking me
people think that you know they think
that's a badge of honor yeah yeah like
oh yeah I work my thing and I don't
sleep and do them like yeah well then
you're compromising yourself I told the
Elan must that did you yeah
I was I went to SpaceX one time and I
pulled him aside he was standing on to
go hey you know you got to take care of
this I put my hand on his chest I just
go you take care of this but you got to
take care of you what do you say he just
yeah I think I don't know if he
understood he's about yeah I don't think
you barely a person I'm just saying I
don't think he was all due respect and
yeah but I don't think he understood
what I meant
I didn't I felt like you know someone
like that if they were really taking
good care of themselves
getting the right sleep getting in the
right food getting a workout all those
things imagine right imagine like if
they can do what they're doing you know
burning it on both ends imagine what
they could do fully balanced well I
don't think he wants to do any more than
what he's doing I just think he's so
obsessed with getting Tesla to run
correctly when he was sleeping on the
floor of the Tesla factory and working
17 hours a day I mean that's that is
that's an insane person I mean he was
just there all day long trying to make
work and obviously it does work they're
amazing cars yeah everything's yeah it's
it's beneficial yeah that this drive
that he has but I agree with you like
for overall enjoyment of life that's not
the way to go but I think you have a
blockage there though - I think if you
don't can't pull back and look at it
from a distance you and you're in it I
think you get too detailed and then you
can't you know you you can't be I think
you I think it could be better because
of that I think maybe maybe I'd be
profitable I mean you're you're
competing against you know the big boys
yeah but what's interesting is oil even
though they are doing that they've
managed to he's managed to make
something that's so different than
anything else yeah I have one that no I
don't fuck man they're crazy yeah III
was reluctant I told him I buy when he
did the podcast yeah but I was like god
damn and I like muscle cars all hearing
engines but I drove that thing I was
like oh other cars are stupid they're
all stupid they are their archaic they
are compared to that thing they are when
you see all the companies going that way
now you can see I mean we were because
my buddy Waldman and I were into
electric stuff and and we went and there
was a guy that has an electric dragster
and we went down and with this electric
geyser and it just smoked any top fuel
dragster like beyond and but it didn't
make noise so no one wanted to watch it
so I mean and you're like what happened
no no no smell no noise no flames right
no don't know it's no burning gasps no
no no pollution
yeah no pollution so people were like oh
that's not fun so
yeah but when you drive a Tesla like I
have the Model S yeah P 100 D I think
it's called when you drive it it's
effortless like everything just you just
go where you want to go I'd like to be
over there it's like a video yeah like
all sudden you're over there you have to
get used to it cuz I've been in them and
driven driven them and it's interesting
how the body has to acclimate to the
acceleration because you're used to that
jerk oh that's shifting you know first
gear second gear third gear all that
delay like it's like AC versus DC where
normal cars are like AC a little gap
between the power and when you get that
you know it's it's the body has to get
used to the I'm still not totally okay
with not looking where you're going and
just flip it in on autopilot but yeah I
guess that's yeah the next generation
well that's fun on the highway but yeah
you know I look where I'm going they
keep my hand on the wheel but it is fun
to like shut 10% of your brain off and
just let the car kind of handle the
speed one it does it well does it well
does it well yeah
why I'd like I said I think you need a
person who's as obsessed as Elon Musk is
to make something like that but I agree
with you if if he wants to enjoy his
life well just live longer yeah you have
more ideas more influence like just
beyond I am only speaking that way I
just mean in the way of optimizing him
right on demising him for because of his
he's so amazing you know that okay let's
optimize your amazingness by by making
you like be healthier let me take care
of yourself so you can be around longer
and maybe do more great things right so
it's again I you know I'm just speaking
personally about when you try to look at
optimization right like you're here you
only get so long you know what are you
doing and and are you really optimizing
it by by you know burn it by by taxing
the system and not not getting all of it
out of it that you you know but I guess
in a way it's kind of like unhappiness
you know people use that as a workout so
that's a load that makes you tired and
your get hungry and you know well it's
the choices you make right like
sometimes you just get stuck in the
momentum of the choice that you made and
it's very difficult to like take that
pause and go okay am i doing this the
right way maybe I need a reset and we
need to just take some time a really
consider if this
is making me happy and how many years
I'm gonna be able to do this and sustain
it yeah well that's a tricky thing you
know that's a that's a that's a self
self you know analyzing yourself and
putting that up is I think it's easier
just to keep going the directional or
going just take some adderall and go
full-speed how long have you been living
in Hawaii uh well my mom took me from
San Francisco and I was six months old
whoa
pretty much it was only a technicality
what that I wasn't born there which
actually worked against me it's cuz you
know when you're not born then when
you're not born there then you're not
from there right there law you're not
warning right and you're like oh yeah
but I've been here since I was you know
since I can remember so let's just put
it that way right but I'm every actually
worked
they still hold it against you the six
months that you were oh yeah oh yeah we
missed you bro oh yes months where were
ya I'm out of your mother here is in the
state but now but yeah since I was a
little kid I mean I my mom took me I was
born in San Francisco and she took me
when I was a few months old I have a
theory about people from Hawaii there's
a groundedness that they seem to exhibit
that is universal it's almost you very
rarely find completely frivolous dopey
people that live in Hawaii they do not
them yeah sure you find some people
they're not that smart but yeah there's
a groundedness there that's so many of
them have because they're on a volcano
yeah why an ocean and you know it's
interesting that you talk about that
because yesterday we were having a
conversation about what is that right
and we have a couple terms one of them
is mana which is the power from the land
another one is Aloha which is our kind
of a spirit of how people act from
Hawaii but I believe it has a lot to do
with Islanders I think Islanders have
that and I and it has a lot to do with
it has a lot to do with the ocean being
around the ocean that the oceans
surrounding you and the ocean is the
most conductive substance on earth so
elec electrically and there's all this
thing so you get influenced by this you
know and I think energetically the
nature is so powerful I think it puts us
into there's a certain kind of humility
that you have when you're
in that you're next to a volcano that's
14,000 foot and you got a 2,000 foot
waterfall and you got a giant wave I
mean this is stuff that kind of goes oh
yeah we're just little ants you're this
little specks and we don't it's humbling
but it's also inspiring and energizing
yeah gives you power right
the montemagno yeah I've always wondered
what people that live in beach
communities they're so chill like I've
wondered is that because of just the
humility that you get we just look in
the ocean welcome to Marin have you ever
seen that book no it's called the blue
mind the guy's pretty interesting and he
does a study of why we gravitate towards
being on the beach why all the most
expensive real estate is beachfront and
that's something about when we stare at
the ocean they did all these studies
where them it just totally lights the
brain up that our whole something about
the horizon and about the ocean itself
that that affects our whole well-being
hmm and and part of it we don't even
know why but we're just drawing like
white you know why is why are we drawn
there why do we you know and and it has
it has a you know an effect on our
system I wonder if that's because we
evolved to be close to the water because
that's where the bounty is we can get
fish and while we evolved from the water
that true - so here we follow that the
the whole aquatic ape theory here yeah
no I haven't really you know I haven't I
haven't I haven't really studied that I
I mean you know I know that I know that
when you're around all fence and when
you're around whales how and like you
know it's interesting today I was in the
ocean and I and I felt something was
around and I could feel it I just knew
something was around and then it just
did five ten minutes later big sea lion
kind of popped its head up and went but
I could feel before but but you know
when you're around those animals that
are in the ocean you definitely feel
like a kindred spirit with them unlike
you do with land animals you know you
don't really have that mean I mean okay
maybe a wolf for dogs because we were
connected with them for thirty thousand
years we have that relationship you feel
something with a dog but but with this
sea animals like I say when the Dolphins
come around and you're you just feel
kind of there's just some there you know
and they they've done some studies with
you know dolphin how they affect kids
that have you know different
disabilities and stuff and how it
totally helps them and and so there's
some healing ability and actually
dolphins are capable of having a
collective consciousness that's why they
when they get surrounded the big ones
don't just jump out of the net they
everybody stays together
hmm so they but but again you know they
aquatic ape but the that were from the
ocean I mean listen that we call it the
super life right the ocean is the is the
reason why this why were we were here
and why would they be here because if it
wasn't for that we would it be Mars and
it'd be hard to live there yeah this
this something that attracts you to it
it's very strange it's it's very true
when you stand there just you could it's
peaceful just to sit down at the beach
and just stare out at the blue it is
yeah well the blue mind is a great book
mmm that's a beautiful book about talks
about that and the science behind that
and the effect it has on our system but
you know it's in a way watching the
ocean move is a little bit like watching
a fire you know how fire is mesmerizing
you have a fireplace and you just watch
the flames move well the ocean has that
movement and and and and all sometimes
I'll go to the beach and I'll do a
headstand and stand and look at the
ocean upside down which is crazy because
now it's the ocean is this is the sky
and the waves are moving opposite to
what your brains used to so it did it's
you know it's something when I'm doing
when I'm bored at the beach do you think
you could ever live in a city I've
stayed in a city for a little while
before I mean I moved to Manhattan at
one point didn't yeah I lived in
Manhattan when I was about 17 or 18 I
had some friends that used to come to
Hawaii
they lived in Manhattan and they invited
me back for this summer and I lived
there for a summer and uh you know it
was dangerous for me to be there that
was how's it dangerous cuz you're kind
of more settled while you're a little
more wild you know you're a little more
like an animal and then you're like
you're in confinement you know and
there's just not enough nature like I go
to Central Park and swing off trees and
stuff but that you know that's the only
that only did
so much will be the time like 17 or
something like you felt like a real urge
to be around nature always yeah always
pulled pulled too I mean I would just go
to Central Park all the time yeah that's
interesting yeah I was just me I needed
that and you know people don't realize
when they lived there but when you when
you're in a place with giant cement
buildings you know that they're tall
you're in fight or flight the whole time
because they're big yeah because you're
you're threatened by these big masses
that could fall over and yeah absolutely
and you intuitively you're living in
that and then the noise and all of the
all the people cuz I you know I grew up
sitting in the back of the class right I
go to restaurant I find a chair against
the wall like I go look for a chair and
go where's you know I'll sit in the
corner I want to see what's coming I
like to see what's coming so and you go
you know you go to New York and there's
just you're bombarded from every single
angle right and so you're in fight or
flight
you're just you're constantly on guard
to you know you don't know what's gonna
you know I'll take my chances in the
ocean yeah I love visiting yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah as far as living there
man I just don't and my friend Jeff
lives there and he's like the energy of
the city who talks about the energy it's
amazing I'm like okay well it's retail
therapy - yeah retail therapy some
retail Mecca it's why every woman in the
world moves there the auto shop shop and
then your friend goes there's a lot of
energy here is all the people people are
yeah and they're doing things it makes
me want to do things yeah yeah but I
want to do things anyway I don't need
that yeah yeah well we weren't meant to
live stacked on top of each other that's
not in our nature that's not in our
biology now these are an abundance of
everything yeah there's a lot of things
that make it attractive right
it's editors editor I mean there's
beautiful women that make it attractive
there's all the food you ever wanted to
make that attractive you know there's
all there's an abundance of stuff and
there's always something you do you go
to the theater you don't have to be
self-motivated you don't be self driven
breathing just there's always three you
know ten parties and a bunch of things
and speakers and Sian just anything you
can think of there's
every aspect of it right so I think
that's has an attractiveness about it
but Minh our essence do we belong in
these these metropolis mmm they don't
really have any in nature there were so
we wouldn't actually that wouldn't be a
place that you know and we can only
handle so many people at once anyway
like we can only have real intimate
relationships with like a hundred and
Gatineau and thirty people or something
something crazy yeah that's like 150
yeah yeah yeah I'm but I'm fascinated by
though is that these things exist
everywhere and that cities exists in
almost every single country there's a
place like a Manhattan or like in LA
where everybody's just jammed in
together like what is it about people
that makes us want to live like this
that's an interesting thing that's an
interesting question why are we
attracted to that to that well the
abundance you know that we're all and
we're we're drawn to go where everybody
wants to go a little bit like sheep you
know we all go where everybody wants to
go opportunity I mean there's all these
things that you know why does every why
why does every city draw every young
person from the countryside right
because of opportunity that I didn't
possibility the possibilities my friend
Michael Mouse was on the show yesterday
and he was telling me that he was
choking he swallowed a piece of food he
got it stuck in his throat and he went
to a table in Manhattan he was in
Manhattan and he was like I'm choking
and he said this to this table people
and he said this woman just stared at
him with no reaction like didn't smile
anything and he coughed and the food
came up he goes I was choking to death
and she said well you should take
smaller bites like just the harshness
the harshness of New York Irishman the
the value of a human being is so so much
less because there's so many of them
yeah that's a problem in the earth yeah
right now our value for and we become
such a voyeur mmm we become such voyeurs
of like well I'll just watch you die
yeah I'll just I'll get a video of it
and put it you know post this shoot
stuff my hands I mean instead of like
wow that guy's needs help he's hurting
let's let me help him right now it's
like wow let's see you know
you see it's just it's a strange
phenomenon
you'll get more help when there's less
people around then you will when there's
all the people around yeah thank you
they'll divvy thousand people no I'll
just sit there and stare at a guy that's
bleeding to death you know where when
there's two people there one of the
people will tourniquet the guy's leg
right right right like if you've met if
you saw someone in the woods fall and
break their leg and was just you two
you'd feel totally connected to that
person whereas if you saw someone as 100
people around the guy falls or gets hit
by a car you like well I mean my problem
that ain't my problem yeah and everybody
goes that's not my problem just
everything you had a diffusion of
responsibility yeah it happens in large
groups of people we feel like somebody's
gonna handle this and Sue me and no one
does yeah no one does they yeah there
was a video that I watched recently of
this guy there was I don't know what was
happening but it was outside at night
some sort of a nightclub sort of a
situation this woman hit this guy and
this guy knocked out this one woman that
another girl came out I mean knocked her
out too and the guys filming it
someone's filming it they're not doing
anything about it
no one's no one's tackling this guy no
one's grabbing the guy runs away
successfully and then the LAPD put a
thing out looking for this guy I'm like
how the fuck does the guy with the
camera live with himself how did you
just he tell him exact type unch to
women exactly yeah exactly unless you're
a woman - and you're like I don't want
this guy fucking me up - I don't know
why you just hit him with a brick then
if I mean you know whatever I'm just
saying just you know are you drive your
car on them yes I just would you know
but it's it is strange how we lose our
humanity and these job we're doing it
more - now just with all of the there's
a bunch of factors that are playing in
into into that right into into us kind
of separating ourselves from the person
next door they're right there but we're
we're over here you know we're on our
right we're on our device looking down
and they're right next to us and we're
lie it's almost like we put we think
that that's an invisible screen yeah
there's also the thing about Hawaii that
I've always found interesting see and
kind of know everybody so you can't be
an asshole that's a beautiful thing yeah
you have to build accountability cuz
you're gonna see him at that you're
gonna see him at the store in five
minutes so either you work it out and
you agree that you don't like each other
and it's just like an accepted thing and
or you work it out and you get through
yeah yeah I love that why I love that
about small towns mm-hmm small towns
have the same thing but the thing about
an island it's a small town with an
ocean around it so there's really
nowhere to go you live on Kauai yeah I
grew up on Kauai how many people live
there about 60-something now 65,000
that's hilarious
yeah that's less than the Big Island
which yeah pretty yeah but it's big yeah
giant and Giants like a hundred
something right yeah yeah I mean I
looked at Maui for a while as well but I
grew up on kowai kowai zmei is my you
know that's my that's got my heart right
it only is my heart so gorgeous they're
gorgeous
and then you've got Honolulu which might
as well be Chicago or something
absolutely
it's like city problem absolutely there
are little city problems well and and
and heavy military hmm so they have a
huge military you know and the military
influences a city like any city that has
it another tear next to it there's an
effect that the military has on the city
and when Honolulu has that Honolulu is
connected to the military it's got Pearl
Harbor and all of that stuff so and then
a million people which is insane that's
a million people it's the gathering
place Honolulu means The Gathering Place
so it's like where everybody goes to you
know that's where the state capitol is
that's our whole that's our that's
Waikiki that's ya know how does that one
place become so populated it's I tend to
I don't know why it's it's you know I
think it has to do with if you look at
most places that cities have been
created it's usually some geographical
design some shape like a harbor and
obviously Honolulu is an incredible
Harbor so great Harbor great protection
so that probably has a lot to do with
with the fact that it was developed like
it was is because of the the nature of
and it was you know I used to say it
like if you went to Rio de Janeiro and
no one was there and you showed up one
day with a boat and there was no one had
built anything it would be amazing if
you showed up in Manhattan and you went
up there you know Hudson and you pulled
up onto that Island you'd be like wow
this place is amazing so most of these
places you know if you're in Paris and
when the sin went around it you'd be
like wow this so most most of the places
where cities have been developed our
amazing geographical locations and then
they out of necessity they were easy to
get to with boat you know that that has
a big factor to it there's always some
sort of you know strategic there's
something to a stretch you know being a
strategic part location as well but yeah
I don't know why Honolulu other than
great for mooring and harbors and it
protected it real protected all that
Pearl Harbor stuff is very protected and
so that made it very easy to develop if
you didn't live there what do you think
you'd live get another planet I love
Alaska you know I but I don't think I
honestly you know both Gabby and I have
been splitting the years for since we
met and I realized that I'm I'm nomadic
like I'm are I'm that I really like like
the animals I like to move in Aziz and
it feels more natural actually and I've
we I kind of with my daughter's we kind
of influence them that way but I don't
want to be anywhere all the time
that's what I really realized I realized
that I'm not good then I just there's
well you'll get caught up in a domestic
with your neighbor and you're just
they're just there's something about
being in one location all year round and
it feels more natural to move according
to the seasons right like hey it's
summertime energize you go to you know
we come to California in the summer the
surface down in Hawaii in the summertime
that's when the waves are flat so
there's they don't I don't have the sea
which means I would shift into other
land stuff it brings a whole set of
opportunities it's like why would we go
north I mean why would we go you know in
North in the summer because it'd be a
more abundant and I'm then but in the
winter you wouldn't go because it'd be
too harsh so it's a little bit like that
mentality where you move more like if
you're hunting and gathering you'd
definitely be moving according to the
seasons like you know where the fruit
was when the fruit was you know good and
you'd go where the hunting was great
when the hunting was good and all of
those things and that feels natural for
me to just be you know to be back and
forth but see like six months need to
play
yeah see you Malibu and Kauai yeah yeah
that's nice well then you get to see
both things to both things and open your
mind it open your mind open your mind
and and energetically Malibu is very
powerful like where we are you know it's
like Indian mountains and the mountains
meet the sea and there's some you know
people don't realize how abundant that
sea life is to they always all Malibu
they have like a preconceived idea about
what Malibu is but Malibu's has a you
know Malibu means gateway to the sea and
Chu gosh that's a that's an Indian word
Malibu is the gate which is a in a way
as the valley that opened from the
plains where the Buffalo were to the
fishing and the and the and the ocean so
there's there's some you know something
to that place that that we feel
comfortable and if you're gonna be here
for us it's a I can still be in the
ocean I can still have that nature part
by that I can run into you know LA and
try to expand my brain a little bit yeah
it is really a weird spot right like
Malibu has got a weird combination of
really rich people that are completely
detached and they're on pills and
they're like that PCH is a terrifying
place to drive one of the most dangerous
so many fucking drunk drivers and it's
windy yeah any of the ocean so good
houses alright and cliff on the other
side of narrow winding and bad drivers
yeah just all our drivers in America
well it's even there's something about
that range - there's so many bars and
there are people drink there is yeah
there is I said that's a wickedly
dangerous road but these this detached
people and then all I've had friends
that had their kids go to Malibu high
and like Jesus Christ
everyone's doing drugs it's all fucked
up yeah and the children of these rich
people are often neglected raised by
their nannies oh yeah parents aren't
home and yeah they're just so you have
that contrasted by some of the coolest
people ever and so you and you have some
of the people that don't want to live in
town that work in the industry highly
successful that want this true they want
nature and they want to be in there and
they'll they're willing to drive that
coast highway every day and go to work
in town to have the balance of being in
the sanctuary so you know it's it's it's
what we always say bright light dark
shadow I mean it's the nature
it's it's what you get with it you know
with the with the greatness you get is
the you know the destruction that
attracts weirdos yeah it does yeah
there's so many strange it's eclectic
people eclectic
yeah which kind of makes it but it makes
it great to like if you're for the good
group you got guys you know you go to
the store and you got guys that are that
are you know that lived in Malibu for
their whole life since they were kids
they don't you know they live up up one
of the canyons and they're totally
grounded and and and you know and then
you got right next to him some you know
giant and mansion and with like you said
you know kids that are neglected and
yeah but there's some good ocean there
and there's some good mountains so for
like mountain bikes and and ocean
activities it's pretty you know the land
stuff's always gonna be tricky with the
humans you know you get the humans there
on land through the place on the water
for like three months when we're getting
our kitchen done and it was crazy like
you just sit there wake up eat breakfast
you're on the water yeah it's just what
yeah and the place we were at yeah it
was the water would literally come under
the edge of the house so it looks like
you're sitting on the water looks like
being on a boat and you're watching do
sea otters and yeah all this wildlife
and birds yeah yeah yeah yeah you don't
want to own one of those houses but
they're nice to stay in well if you own
it you really don't own it for long no
not in this day and age now especially
if we get it we never know we're gonna
get a big wave I'm always gunshot but
being on the water you know living on
the water I think I when I was a kid we
had to evacuate and so I for tsunami for
giant surf huge huge surf so we had to
leave our house in our house but your
house got pushed across the road and one
1969 Jesus your eyes yeah so I've always
been I think I've had a thing in the
back of my head like and one besides
highly expensive but just living on the
beach it's like no I'll go to the beach
I'll be at the beach all day but then I
want to be away and like I want to go
home and be away right and not have sand
in my bed and not have on my TV and you
know not have like everything gets
corroded corroded well you have to build
a boat yeah you should if you build a
house there just pretend it's a boat and
that you don't have to
worried about sinking maybe it might
some might sink slowly how far away do
you live from the water I'm about a mile
as a crow flies but I'm up a hill so I
overlook I overlook the ocean and I can
see and then I don't have any neighbors
I have only one neighbor on the front
and back and then both sides no
neighbors so it's I've always liked
being on hills and being back I just
seems that's where I end up I just sort
of use I think view you're really good
for your brain good for your brain to be
up mm-hmm and and let everything fall
below good for the brain so soothing on
the mind what is this this physical
training company that you're doing
you're doing something xpt yeah what is
that xpt is I would describe it as a
kind of a it's a lifestyle program that
evolved out of what how I live like what
we what we do and so we started an
experiential thing where people can come
for like two and a half days and go
through this you know get exposed to
speakers and they do heat nice and we do
pool training and breath work and
mobility conferences and stuff there I'm
supposed to speakers like what do you
mean well I all invite you know I would
invite you to come and speak for an hour
I'd invite Paul check or we'd have
somebody speak on longevity or
somebody's week on you know just have
during that during the the experience
we'll have a couple speakers talk on you
know nutrition fitness wellness career
whatever just as something as another
piece of the of the element and then and
then like I said we have pool training
and then we true and we've been
certifying trainers now to kind of help
people go through the the process as
well and so it's you know it's it's
really about rest and recovery and
breathing it's more based on on that
part it's not just another training
thing of like hey how we you know how we
can hammer you I mean I think that's
overplayed I think the ways we can train
and and how we're training is really
overplayed I think we're we're not
creating enough things that nurture the
system you know and really look at
trying to support people in there in
there in there already
you know hammering life they're already
just beating them
down it's like let's get off the red-eye
and then we'll go to the gym and we'll
hammer ourselves there and then we'll
stay up all day and you know and I think
we they need some support so breath work
is a big part of it knowing how to move
correctly I think that's a big part of
it cuz plenty of people hurt themselves
especially in the gym meet without you
know without some knowledge of movement
in form mm-hmm
and then I have a pool training system I
developed which is the Gabi was telling
them yeah that sounds a crazy yeah
that's the most proprietary thing I
think we have is it's a marriage between
the gym and the in the pool because I
despise swimming that's you yeah well I
know I do I just watch if you said go do
laps in the pool
I'd be like Shamu and I get the floppy
fin and really oh yeah I just said I I
just that's crazy
you're fucking surf no but I'm saying
but but if you said hey we're gonna take
these masks in this fins and we're gonna
swim this coastline where the waves are
breaking on the rocks and we're gonna go
for five miles I'm in like I but if you
said hey go down there and and and and
wear some swim goggles where you can't
even see and swim in some murky water
where you don't know what's in it and
we're gonna swim a mile down there and
you're gonna do that every day that D
I'd rather step on a you know rusty nail
then do that I mean it's like that's so
because of my my disdain for swimming
that kind of swimming I mean if there's
its if it's in the surf and the waves
that's a different that's a different
game that's a whole different we don't
want to do laps in the pool you'd kill
me yeah I'm gonna die I just I would
rather yeah I just I'd rather get my
hand with it it's so weird
enjoy moving in the water but I do with
some dumbbells
okay so carrying a dumbbell and jumping
within dumbbells well why did you start
xpt like what was the motivation because
you're obviously into doing these stuff
yourself yeah why create a foundation or
well the reason why we started it was
because an opportunity to expose this
stuff and share with more people we were
doing in ourselves naturally and then we
have friends come and they were like
this stuff's awesome and then can I
invite my friend and then we were we
realized that that if we really wanted
to expose it to more people and share it
we were gonna
it was gonna be a limitation if
everybody had to come to my house to
have like a website and every young yeah
what is the XP t like XP t life comm and
XP T stands for well my my concept is is
it exploration and performance training
ah there's a high performance fuels a
limitless life dumbbells in the pool
there oh yeah so this is all you are you
you I need to yeah you should come well
I'm just in it kyle Kingsbury yeah i
love that guy
yeah the we'll have some beautiful guys
come like i'll give you a great thing
that you'd appreciate is i have this
hole well first of all there's a bunch
of things that happen in the water right
which one of the things that happens is
when you're underwater the compression
of the water allows the blood to flow
through your lymphatic system which
normally takes about a 24 hour period it
happens in one hour
so imagine compression tights like you
know if you wear compression it really
helps the blood flow right well this is
the ultimate compression the water is
right so then you deal with the
psychology so it's good for fighters
like III fighters because of the
psychology of what we can do because you
deal a lot with stress so we're able to
implement
stress in a very controlled environment
and then and then and then like for
example and grant hill at one point in
his career but i have love friend Joakim
Noah who's a basketball player and we
were doing these we're doing these in
the water we're doing these dunking
drills last summer so he trained with
him and get a bunch of stuff because you
can do a lot of highly explosive heavy
loaded movement with protection because
now you don't have to worry about
momentum which is what's gonna pull your
shoulder out it's gonna be hip that's
gonna hurt your knee where I can take a
basketball player and I can run him
through thousands of jumps thousands
which at the end of if I did that on
land he would be broken
he's already jumping too much in his
season he doesn't need to jump more
right so I could load him up and make
him do these dynamic movements but now
he's protected because he's because
we've taken gravity out so we're had so
it's it's like it's like saying hey we
get to go trade in outer space but it's
in my backyard right now what what kind
of results of these athletes well
experience well
Joakim in his career and I don't know
how many years he's been in the NBA he
came back after doing this dunking job
just using this as an example and uh and
had the most dunks per minute that he's
had in his entire career whoa he was
like Duncan on it was slamming on
everybody I mean it helps that he's
seven feet tall but the fact is is that
he he he noticed now you know Grant Hill
was talking about he gained three inches
in the last year of his career after
playing in the NBA for 20 years I've
said he's jumping 3 inches higher look
yeah yeah so I mean we're getting well
I'm that's the kind of tangible stuff
that I'm that I that I'm getting just
that there's a lot more things a lot of
it has to do with breath because in the
water it's all controlled breathing
patterns so everything is controlled
because you can't breathe in till you
get to the top so if you're doing a
drill where you're jumping and most of
the things we do are leg driven swimming
is mostly arms part of the reason why
people only use their arms is because
you use five times the oxygen with your
legs as you do with your arms so the
legs are very inefficient for swimming
but yet they create a lot of load on
your heart which that can boost your
breath holding and so there's a bunch of
other other things that happen but a lot
of it is just that environment is very
protective so for recovery too for like
what somebody's got a hurt knee hurt hip
hurt ankle you can go in there and start
moving dynamically early before you
would ever do it on land and be
protected so there's a bunch of you know
and then we could just Ratchet it up I
can make you know if I I truly believe
if you gave if you said you know I'll
get you Phelps is gonna come to your
house and you're gonna have Phelps for
three months I could make Phelps faster
yeah this is this is this I'm so I'm
he's doing a dunking drill and he's
using a medicine ball but he's having to
jump out of three feet of water right
mm-hmm so when he gets on land when he
gets on land it's like it's like a he
it's like a whole other game yeah it
imagine a whole nother game now did you
invent this protocol this whole thing of
jumping and doing in the water what what
motivated you well I came the original
concept came out of the drilled not a
drill a thing we used to do in the
summer when we were kids it's a Hawaiian
kind of Waterman drill where you run on
the bottom of stones docena BJ Penn does
that so you get a stone you run along
the bottom then you put it down then
your friend swims along the surface and
then when he when you go up he swims
down and grabs it and then he goes along
as far as he can and you swim and you
just go back and forth until neither one
of you can do it
so his base kind of on that concept and
then but I wanted to expand that because
that's kind of limiting you just swim
and you run and you can't isolate
movements and you're not working it like
you can with dumbbells so now I shift
dumbbells into the water and and I have
all different weights so depending on
your skill level you know everything we
do and that's one thing about everything
that I'm involved in is is it usually
has to have a spec to be able to be you
know for everybody to do it it has to be
old people and kids too in my mind that
it's not viable
unless it's it you can appeal to
everybody that you need you need to a
kids need to be able to do it an old
person to be able to really be valid
that really have legitimacy you know
it's like okay the coffee it has to be
there has to be things that the kids can
can have that creamer the old people can
have it it's gotta be can't just be
specialized I think the specialization
of some of this stuff is creates the
lack of validity I don't think that it's
valid if it's specialized and so I could
take a little kid like my daughter does
a bunch of the pool training stuff right
I have an older older guys that come and
do a bunch of the pool training stuff
you know I got Pat Riley comes in there
and he trains in the summer time with us
and stuff yeah yeah so we get a really
broad spectrum of people and that and
that confirms to me that it's really
legitimate right because then it's like
now this is real like the kids can do it
the whole people can do it the top guys
can do it the bottom guys can do it
everybody can do it
that you know that that's something
that's that's I just think that that's
the you know what what what is real so
how many years even doing this xpt well
I mean the pull training I've been I
developed over the last probably ten to
twelve years about twelve years now in
the pool with any you've evolved it so
you talked off with a couple ideas why
before I had like a Velcro weight jacket
velcroed like uh yeah we yeah jump in
the deep end it was a little scary I get
the jacket off and how can you get up so
that wasn't that was that wasn't viable
that was so then we moved of dumbbells
where you can drop them and but we you
know there's probably 20 exercises that
we asked way to use and it depends
sometimes we're doing we have a move
called the gorilla where we're using you
know sixty to seventy seventy pound
dumbbells where you're doing a curl
press jump so ugiy and you're jumping on
the slope so your curl pressing and
jumping with with with you know sixty
seventy pound dumbbells depending on
your size we're swimming with 50 pounds
sixty pound dumbbells we're jumping off
the bottom with fifteen pound dumbbells
it depends on the exercise so it's all
depends on the person's skill what the
drill is but we I have a whole I have
all the weights next to the pool so we
have everything from seventies to to
five pound dumbbells I love that idea of
the jump press like doing some sort of a
oh yeah it's all you'd love it it's
crazy I call it the gorilla curl so it's
a squat curl press jump and then when
you come out of the water you just let
the weights drop and then the water
catches it you could never do that and
how do you rip your shoulder out right
right how do you do this in the water
well you vary on your height mm-hmm so I
have I have a about a 11 foot deep end
and then I have a slope so you can
choose every depth all the way and then
I have what you saw in that last video
it's about a three and a half foot
shallow end hmm so this is the first
pool I'm trying to build a couple I'm
trying to build one in Hawaii right now
that's that's gonna evolve from what I
learned from this pool so this pool I
just kind of built it with you know with
the hopes of designing a program and
then out of it came all the all this
stuff what are you gonna alter I'm gonna
create multiple depths so I'm gonna do
like an area that has 12 foot then we're
gonna shift back 2 feet and have a 10
foot and then another flat area of 8
foot and then another flat area 6 foot
mm-hmm and then I have the magic width
is about somewhere between 35 to 40 feet
wide and that's like if you're trying to
swim a heavy dumbbell you know we do a
lot of individual limbs stuff so that
you isolate each limb so we'll do pistol
squats at
Russian lunge squats and a bunch of
other you know and and movements that
you can you'd be very vulnerable if you
did that in the gym you can chance or
you could hurt yourself but because you
have that stability in that environment
it totally supports you so you can you
can be and go into ranges of motions
that you don't have like you you know
you might not be able to go sink all the
way down into a deep lunge on one leg
and press out with dumbbells in your
hand on land but in the water you can
and and the water actually makes it
lighter so you have to boost the weight
and stuff so there's a bunch of great
stuff that comes out of it that sounds
very attractive to people that have had
injuries beautiful and what but the
irony is is it kind of it's a little bit
like what comes out of rehab where you
actually get better performance - like
you're like you know a lot of a lot of
rehab exercises become performance
driving exercises you know it's like you
don't do that shit only when you get
hurt start doing that and get strong
that way so then you maybe you won't get
hurt yes you know so it comes that way
too it goes both directions hmm and do
you have workouts that people can follow
online if someone goes to the SBT life
is xpt live yes vt life website yeah
well actually the thing that we have the
thing we have right now that's probably
the most the most kind of prevalent one
the thing that's happening the soonest
is we have a breathing app coming out so
we have a breathing app that has almost
every different modality of breath work
and so there's some pretty cool stuff in
there where you can go choose hey before
I go to sleep or before my workout after
my workout you know during my thing so
we have a bunch of we have a pretty cool
breathing app that that we're working on
as well so you ever talked to wim HOF I
don't win do you know where yeah yeah
I'm doesn't he doesn't give a fuck if
you breathe out of your nose your mouth
I know I know
he's comedy no I have I've had a few
I've had women I've had a few we've had
a few experiences let's just put it that
way but we've had him at it we've had
him at a couple of experiences and I've
done some stuff with wim I've done win
for I don't know like four or five years
now maybe maybe a little longer so he'll
kick
usually when he was in town I think the
last time maybe when you when you saw
him he came he comes to visit so I get
him I if I usually when I go with women
easily translate for him when he goes to
one of his classes I'm usually like
trying to people don't understand so I
have to say sometimes I'll be with
somebody they'll be like what do you say
I'll be like what he means is take a
deep breath yeah he's such a character
guy went to fucking the top of Everest
barefoot oh yeah like well yeah I almost
lost his toes - yeah yeah yeah no he
goes yeah well he's he is his art
actually is - mo is is AB is a
derivative of - mo and I'm not sure if
you know what Nomo is but - mo is a
Himalayan breathing technique that the
that the the monks have that they were
they they have this one thing where they
dry sheets so they have this thing the
ceremony where they go at night in the
Himalayas when it's frozen and snow and
the guy sits there and they put wet
sheets wet blankets on them and they
breathe and get their bodies so hot that
they dry the blankets and then the guy
that can dry the most blankets at the
end of the night is the is like the guy
you know but it's a yeah yeah and it's
called - mo and it's a you can go online
and look it up but - mo is a is a
Himalayan breathing technique that that
that was never exposed to Westerners big
until just as of recently but the whims
whims work is a derivative of of - mo
but knows breathe it's all about nose
breathing it's all about nose breathing
and when you understand the science of
it but he's right about getting people
to just breathe because people are not
breathing then we just had in fact we
had another belissa what's her I want to
say it's a Russian name but but she has
a great book she trains fire fire and
police and military breathing we just
had her we did an ex PT in Miami about a
week two weeks ago and and she came as a
guest speaker and we and was working on
really trying to create more volume and
then
a lot of people's rib cages aren't
moving and so they have a whole you know
there's ways to try to increase your
movement of your rib cage your rib cage
you'd actually open like you you can
take a tape and measure your rib cage
when you're fully exhaled and then when
you inhale it should expand like you
know three inches or more for you to be
really optimum ly breathing and a lot of
people I mean part of it has to do with
the whole six-pack abs and what's
aesthetically pleasing but meanwhile
when you have a real nice set of
six-pack abs your you don't you're not
able to diaphragmatic ly breathe you're
not able to use your diaphragm you're
not using your diaphragm
without that yeah because you're you
hear the tightness isn't allowing the
diaphragm to push down the diaphragm and
the pel and the pelvic floor actually
squeeze your organs together and and
that is actually massaging the organs
which influences your digestion and
everything and it deals with a bunch of
acid reflux and a bunch of other things
but when the when the when that's the
ABS are so tight that that the that the
stomach can expand the organs can't push
this belly out then you then then you
have a limitation in your in your brand
then the ribs aren't moving I mean it's
just the guys are gonna hear this and go
good I'm gonna stay fat I don't need a
six-pack well but but no but but I
actually if you're really using your
lungs you you can you know strengthen
your core in a way that you'll get core
you could have six-pack abs and not have
core stability like so you know I mean
and you know this I mean when you look
at a lot of not every single great
fighter is just ripped know some of the
best ones ever not ripped at all or
Fedor exactly so let's talk about that
for a you know that aesthetic isn't
always function right right and oh and
of course we you know the mind is always
ahead of everything I don't care what
the car looks like if the got no motor
doesn't do anything so it's the body
only goes where the brain tells it but
the fact is is that that you see some of
the best athletes when you look at
certain athletes you're not like they're
not the physical specimens that you've
ever seen you're like that that guy is
the most ripped and shredded a lot of
times those guys get knocked out you
know you see
you just call this guy's gonna kill this
guy and then he just gets you know
annihilated by the guy that looks maybe
not quite sure that's hard right right
part of his genetics max Holloway is
perfect sample Hawaiian guy yeah he's
not like shredded
I mean he's strong yeah obviously but he
looks more like a swimmer yeah yeah WA
and you you might find that his
breathing he might he might have better
air volume because at the end of the day
a lot of its about oxygen cardio yeah
and Max's cardio is off the charts
exactly so he's getting more movement
out of there I mean you know again we've
created these you know aesthetic things
in our culture like Oh six-pack abs a
sign of this and done it up but when you
look at real breath work and how the
diaphragm works and how the ribs expand
you realize is like we're none of us are
really doing it right you know and you
can actually create more volume you know
you said you like cordyceps mushrooms
yes well those are actually a
vasodilator those helps help you absorb
oxygen you those can up your vo2 max
right there's only a couple things that
you can how to increase your vo2 max but
cordyceps is one of them pieces beats is
another one you can create more volume
by expanding your lungs so by opening
the ribcage in creating more room that
can create um promote your vo2 max now
when people are hearing this and they're
hearing breath work folks who have never
done anything like that they don't they
really don't understand what you're
saying like what do you mean by breath
work like give us an example of like a
protocol well I mean a real simple I
mean they do it in pranayama they have
it in apnea there's a thing called
holotropic breathwork really is is when
you isolate the breathing system and you
know the simplest way and that's why wim
says hey I don't give a shit how you
breathe just breathe that's right yeah
yeah so you know like will do a breath
routine and we'll sit somebody down and
we'll say okay breathe like you're
running breathe like you're running and
we'll tell the guy breathe like he's
running another
i go thats a slowrun buddy like breathe
like you're running like you know like
like anytime you need any movement in
any air in and out is gonna is a form of
breath work right and especially when
you isolate the system and you're not
doing it because of an activity the the
fact is that when you use that system
and you work it and you're not
detracting from it by doing an exercise
if you're doing the assault bike where
your arms are working and your legs are
working so all the oxygen that you're
absorbing is going into your arms and
legs when you're isolating you just do
the breathing alone now the oxygens
going into that system and that system
is gonna develop and get better then
when you do your assault bike after you
develop that system so will isolate
breath work and we'll just do it alone
well whether we're doing you know
whether we're doing breath holes we're
doing some kind of apnea breath work
which is you know we can do a pattern
where you're doing like you you hold for
30 seconds and then you breathe in for
15 and then you breathe out for 15 then
you hold again
then you go in and out and hold in and
out and hold that's one pattern another
pattern is in hold out hold in hold out
hold in hold out like you know again
those are theirs you know and then
there's pranayama apnea holotropic
there's just some where you're
oxygenating the system where you know
like Wims would be where you just get
that rhythm going and do that for five
minutes and people know about I feel
lighted and I go yeah because you
haven't had oxygen like on your head do
you haven't had oxygen in your system
like that right so again a conscious
bringing consciousness to your breath
we're not just walking along in life
like not thinking about breathing mm-hmm
that's the beginning of breath work just
awareness of hey I need
[Music]
you know I need to need to breathe in
and out I stay conscious yeah and that's
a big one with martial arts you see in
jiu-jitsu with beginners when they first
start sparring for the first time they
panic and they have shallow breath and
you got to tell us okay stop right now
just breathe oh yes Bri oh yeah well my
to fight yeah fighter flight but it's
interesting how they can't get a deep
breath yeah they hyperventilate yeah
well you put somebody in the ice for the
first time that has oh yeah that's the
craziest want to see it that's an
instantaneous I can't breathe oh yeah
but you eventually learn well the system
the system turned that's actually an
involuntary response to get out mm-hmm
right strike you you have the option so
you should exercise that option that's a
response that's your that's your
subconscious mind protecting the organ
organism like yeah this in your body
intuitively knows this is dangerous
right environment get out and so that
reaction is to get you to get out when
you when you make a conscious effort to
not leave that environment then the body
goes okay you're not gonna get out okay
well now organize I'll bring the blood
to the organs I'll adjust everything
I'll boost your hormones and so and then
pretty soon you don't get that response
anymore once you do it on regular basis
the body just goes oh we're here we are
again back to that ice thing
bring the buddy you know boost the
hormones bring all the blood in the
organs you know that so but that cut
that's that's a similar thing to the way
you're talking about in jujitsu where
people are the stress on the system
they're stressed and so they're
involuntarily you know and that's
fight-or-flight one thing you can really
do to calm like comic kids down this is
the way you get yourself into
parasympathetic where you bring your
thing down is when you extend your
breath for seven seconds on the inhale
and the exhale that reduced that'll
bring everything down like if you want
to calm down and your or your kids stret
your little kids just all and you get
them to just breathe in for seven
seconds yeah and I tell people think
about a sigh my youngest daughter when
she would get upset she would do that
should I try you gotta breathe you gotta
breathe mom dad seven seconds is a magic
number if they if you can extend the
breath for seven seconds and the body
goes into paracin
that again and totally let's that's what
you do to like go to sleep at night like
if you're having a hard time so there's
a bunch of stuff to learn about the
breath which is amazing I think the
reason why the the breath has always
been so important to me is this because
of the ocean because you know growing up
when you almost drown you know a
thousand times you you you what air is
important you you get to know if you
just get to appreciate like there's none
down there and it's all up there and so
be cool down there and so when you say
you can get back well I learned breath
work because of Hicks and Gracie I'm
watching Hicks and Gracie practice yoga
is your friend you know yeah you know it
does that well that's that's the
pranayama yes yeah there's a name for
yeah this way you twist it yeah yeah he
really sucks his organs Yap in his son
can do it amazingly Kron can do it
amazing yeah yeah it's super good for
you well that for the organs yeah and
that the ability to control your breath
like that is so critical when you're
sparring so critical to get oxygen these
long training sessions well for your
life yeah for your life anytime you're
in the stress if you can control your
breath that controls your heartrate yeah
do you ever do 30 seconds in 30 seconds
out you ever do that yeah
just slow deep breaths in just low
depress oh that's an amazing exercise
yes well that's the extension of that
that's parasympathetic that's bringing
it seven just the minimum amount but
whenever you go into any of those long
extended stuff and then and then those
breath holds anytime you hold the breath
then you get that co2 level and that's
what gives you the angst
you know what's interesting because you
know Wims done like some record breaking
stuff and you have that free diving
stuff where where they scrub oxygen you
know where they hyperventilate and scrub
the co2 and get that real low but you
have to be careful about shallow water
blackout so we don't really practice any
of that stuff we do more like a salt
bike jump in the pool and see how long
you can hold your breath and then it's
and then and then you know five 10 10
seconds is like that's big-time 15
seconds you're like wow that was amazing
I'm maximum heart rate how long can you
hold your heart I mean how long can you
hold your breath that's some that's a
challenge so you keeping us all but
right next to the pool yeah
yeah roll you roll it into the oh yeah
yeah yeah oh yeah yeah wow yeah wow
there's always another you know twist to
the pretzel now what other I mean
because of your hip do you have any
limitations on other kind of stuff that
you can do umm not imagine running would
be a real key yeah no I I like deep deep
texture running so soft sand because of
the foot and the articulation of the
feet and not shoot and none not wearing
shoes so I'll do beach I'll do sand
running and like if I'm in the snow like
Alaska or something like that but I love
barefoot and deep stuff I don't like
running out on hard ground I just first
of all as soon as you're you know if
you're 215 or two you know whatever
anything over 200 pounds I mean you
shouldn't be running more than a couple
miles a week if you're over a buck 20 I
mean it's just it oh yeah it's so hard
on your sis on the hard ground
absolutely that stuff is just pounding
you yeah I mean it's one thing to go in
a soft something that has absorption you
know like if you're running in the sand
or you're running or you're running in
the snow or you're running in some deep
thick grass or something that's got
absorption but yeah you go run your you
know your 180 200 pounds and you run and
you just pound everything's just you
know seven times your body weight on the
download and then you're wearing a shoe
that's you know that's kind of deceiving
you it's a little bit like a sunglass
you know it's you think you're blocking
the light but it's letting the bad light
in you know you think it's a block and
the absorption but you just get pounded
I mean your and your feet or you know I
mean barefoot is so important grounding
so important I mean these are these are
things but I have a new but I have a
cool bike that I just somebody just gave
me recently called a stand up bike which
the company called elliptical but it's a
standing bike it's position so for
standing alone and so the posture is
unbelievable and you want to grind on a
hill I mean you don't need running and
then you have zero impact it's like you
know and so I think running is hard I
mean I understand the high of running
and but you know if you want to you want
a real for me real running is barefoot
and some soft sand I had this one beach
in Hawaii that I run on that
that that's a little bit like quicksand
probably you'll sink in like mid you
know lower lower lower calf like yeah
you know you'll sink in a foot into it
oh you don't need to go far like you you
don't need to go and you know a taro
patches no so I grew up we got grew up
farming like around on a pig farm and
then with taro patches and fishing and
so I kind of grew up in uh but there's a
taro taro patches a as a rice paddy
pretty much mud right and so you we grew
up working in that stuff and walking and
carrying buckets and being in that mud
which is washing the mud like a foot
deep mud but what I'm saying an
environment like that where you have to
pull your foot out and then sink in
where it's absorbing the impact I mean
that's where work you know I always
question the damage versus the work
right like the pounding that you and
most I mean you know once you're a
certain size the war the pounding that
you get I think you can get all the
cardio you want do jump rope jump ropes
great you landed on your toe you're
doing the thing about when you're
running every neva bleep people go to
heel striking they're landing on their
heels because they have a shoe that they
so they think they're getting you know
they think they're getting protected
because they're landing on something
kind of soft but it's still sending the
you know that impact up your spine and
inevitably anything you do and you and
you come back and your back hurts I have
to question like is that optimum right
you know and that wasn't deadlift either
it was you know right right yeah but
your what about your friend the Muay
Thai fighter
well he's but he runs he runs like on
the very super short short step mmm
balls of his feet like you like and I
would I wouldn't even call it more like
I don't even know how to describe the
pace but it's a soilless slow a slow
pace that you're landing on the toes the
whole time so it's not like a run you
know a hard run where you're pounding so
so he's probably doing like 10-minute
miles or something I don't know I don't
even know what is his ranges you don't
that that's mr. Tom Jones well I think I
think running off your toe is great yeah
I mean there's some as the who chose the
running who does who does it I do I run
with minimal issues yeah for standing
bike that is ridiculous I wouldn't be
caught dead in that thing
well that for me that that there that's
the elliptical they have the new a new
one that's just a pedal I'm just kidding
it looks awesome knows like you know I
think I made that silly because the guy
was a runner and couldn't run anymore
got injured and then he said he started
the bike and he said biking's not
running and so then he developed that
thing because it's simulates running
without the impact that's unlike I said
that's why I like the pool that's why
and and I think too it's like if you
think about doing things forever mmm
we're talking about doing things forever
yeah right yes so we're talking about
doing things forever so how are we gonna
do them so we can do them forever
no impact well so reducing impact and if
you actually started doing that
initially then you might not have to
worry about trying to recover from all
that stuff that you so it's like we
don't want to Train in a way that we're
gonna have to change our training to try
to make up because all the damage we've
done let's try to avoid the damage from
the beginning and I'm it's already too
late for me I got seven you know I got
six broken ankles I got broken what the
hell did you just do your ankle isn't
what's been programming six or seven
times broke the arch broke all the
Medicus from surfing all different
motorbike surfing snowboarding how did
you mess up your hip probably cuz my
broke walking on a broken ankle for all
those years because each time I broke it
I had five or six different breaks and
then I would keep going
so I would keep walking on it and but
I'd means I had to carry the load on my
right hip so I think I just wore the
cartilage out from offsetting and
carrying the load of the broken Lake
Jesus so that was but so I mean it's so
wasn't like one injury where you hurt
your hip it was just slowing I just wore
it out I just I I said I lived a couple
lives with that one now is that that was
only a one life hip and I had three
lives in a what does it like having a
fake hip insane incredible bionic the
things not even in my in my in my brain
not even how so it doesn't I doesn't I I
don't ever even bring it into
consciousness it's an its slicker it's
like a mercedes-benz ball joint I mean
it's absolutely perfect Wow
it's a and and you know I mean I
had a CL I had some nice stuff before
that was harder to recover from than the
hip the hip was I just felt like I got
kicked by a horse for a couple months
and then after that it was like no
brainer jump off a cliff go stand up
paddle run
I mean I'd tell you to not do certain
things no really no you could like you
could just start don't do anything you
should do with your real one oh really
that's don't do anything you shouldn't
do with your real one yeah absolutely
that was the only thing I mean the guide
the doctor Penenberg who did mine he did
it to a contortionist
I guess some contortionist had some
blown hips and he did it to the girls
still performing and stuff so I don't I
think it's I mean this stuff is the
technology is amazing and the thing that
I the thing that I would consider if I
ever had to do it again is that the
atrophy from the the the the initial
problem is harder to recover from then
you just go in and get in the new one
and I think when people push it you know
they used to try to push that stuff
because they want to wait for the
technology got better and they only last
15 years and all that stuff but the
atrophy that you try to recover from is
harder to recover from than if you would
have gone in and gotten it done when you
need when as soon as you needed to have
it so the one you have now you have to
get it swapped out every 15 years no no
no but but in the back in the early well
they do
they they don't know how long this new
stuff lasts they had some they had some
material that that wore out after like
that because there's a like a some kind
of polyurethane some kind of psychic
outer layers well like a cart lit like
like a man-made cartilage between the
ball joint in the socket and so that
stuff wore out in the past but they out
and they have this new stuff that that
has been in for ten years and a lot of
people are already and they've seen zero
wear on it so you know you don't know it
could be 30 could be you know could be
10 I mean I I was actually uh I stayed
conscious in in I was able to stay awake
for my hip surgery that because I didn't
want to have to recover from the from
the yeah really yeah it takes people a
month to get the anesthesia out of their
system really oh yeah
to try to get the anesthesia I mean
anesthesia controlled death there just
put you right to the edge of dying and
keep you alive I mean anesthesia some
hard stuff on your system to get that
stuff out of your organs you got to do
like a full detox cleanse it's not just
like oh yeah anesthesia I've never heard
that before I didn't I didn't know that
oh yeah I thought you'd feel like shit
for a day or two but I didn't know it
that shit's in your organs and stuff
there's no way that stuff's Tascosa they
can't they can't doshi out and knock you
out like that without that stuff
lingering I mean you know how long does
it take to when you got a hangover I
mean he so did they do like an epidural
block on your epidural block yeah and
they had it so good that they could just
isolate the left the left hip they did
that to me when I had my first ACL
surgery yeah I wanted to see it yeah cuz
I was like oh yeah I want to watch I
felt like I'm only gonna do this once in
my life I want to see this turns out add
three of them yeah surgeries but yeah
but I wanted to see it I wanted I wanted
to be there Sheriff it was pretty freaky
yeah I was ACL yeah I had ACL - yeah all
the right leg yeah yeah
gabber I had a cadaver my right leg and
left leg out of patellar tendon oh yeah
yeah so now your hip doesn't even you
don't feel it you don't feel anything
not even in the wheel not even a thought
Wow not even like like amazing and it
was I was it was debilitating I could
barely walk I mean I could still surf
but I get to land I was hobbling around
like you know my friend
Maynard from tool you know the band tool
yeah Maynard is a he's a jujitsu
enthusiast and he had to get his hip
done and he fucked his hip up from
stompin on stage you know because he's
always stompin with young leg yeah he
blew his hip out yeah well I think mines
attributed a lot to my back leg and
surfing so I'm on that back leg and that
Mac leg is loaded so I think that but
but I know the brakes the brakes and the
other in the left ankle and left foot
and how many I had and that I was always
on it I know that attributed to lot cuz
this this this right leg carried the
load for that thing for to get your left
leg fixed my ankle ankle yeah I just let
it so every time I listen I went I went
to my knee to get my knee worked on in
the
he goes he saw my ink on he goes and
then he saw about how much mobility I
had and he called in some foot
specialist and they had to take x-ray
they just wanted to see cuz I have no
metal in there there's no screws there's
no nothing I just let it you know it
just so every time do you just let it
sort of heal itself up yeah so it
snapped you just walk around on it yeah
pretty much
cut the cast off the first time was I
was sixteen cut the cast off and you
know and I went a tree broke it the
first time and then and then I had
broken other ways it got a little
smarter a fairy broke him but yeah
that's and then orange dark I broke the
arch because the ankle was so calloused
so bonded that when I broke it I
actually broke my arch that was the
probably the most painful that was the
most painful breakdown in that area when
I talked to Kelly Slater he broke his
foot yeah that too yes his was just
recently yeah yeah and his was fucked up
for a long time he said that's a painful
thing to snap your toes like you're the
molded metatarsal crazy well yeah you
have 75% of the bones in your body or
below your ankles
what really 75 percent like lines of
numbers yeah numbers above but your feet
your feet have like half the bones of
your entire body god I never thought of
that that's crazy but it make there's a
lot of shit down there a lot going on a
lot little little ones in there little
nubs and weird little ankle see that's
why kickboxing so stupid you throwing
those things that people and slamming
them in the elbows knees and stuff fuck
the quads big guaranteed yeah nothing
like kicking something and breaking your
feet yeah you know it's a little
embarrassing if it's a wall though would
you kicked no I'm just saying I know
mine was I like I said I broke mine
broke mostly sports related motorbike
windsurfing you know towing yeah yeah
well I guess with as many injuries as
you had though you do understand like
what's good and what's bad for you for
sure yeah you hope but you know it's
interesting it's a little bit like in
karate where you know you
you know how to heal you know how to
wound mmm interesting you know that the
more the more you understand it's like I
think them I think my injuries first of
all it's a form of failure I think that
is taught I've learned a few things from
and and and you learn how also how to
recover and how to heal and so I think
that feeds into how to train and perform
I can think that's all interrelated see
because you start to have a more
intimate relationship with your body and
know how it responds so I think there's
something I mean you don't learn a lot
from winning you know and succeeding
that doesn't teach you anything compared
to losing you know losing teaches you
and in any way injuries are forms of
loss you know unsuccess yeah yeah yeah
yeah when you lose your and then you
lose your ability to do stuff and then
you wonder why you're doing it and if
you're gonna be able to do it again yeah
oh that's tough
do you float at all no but I saw your
float tank you've never done it I
haven't oh man I'll be right up you're
out I know I just haven't I just I've
been invited my friend has one in Malibu
I just haven't ever use it every time
you want yeah I should try to get it to
float that I'm on down and anytime you
want it's like I can tell there's salt
in there by the way the everything's
crusting up and over guaranteed yeah a
thousand pounds of epson salts oh yeah
tank yeah yeah if you're anytime I have
an ocean so I float there and a lot of
noise and you don't know it's true
it's just fur but that's what you love
about the pool because you're floating
already as soon as you go under actually
have speakers underwater so it'd be like
oh really oh you play music wow
so you can get you can get lost over
there it's pretty cool so what other
things do you do besides the curl press
jump thing like what other other types
of exercise are you doing in the pool
we're doing we're doing yeah you know
like single dumbbell so single easy
clean single arm dumbbell and then
stroke get a breath freefall so you're
doing single arm jumping okay and then
we're doing swap single arm swimming
single arm swimming carrying dumbbell I
called an animal box how much weight he
doing that was we knew like 50 60 pounds
Wow doing ham it's called an ammo box
he'd be like if he had an ammo box yeah
just over cross the river like that's
the concept we have cellphone we have
the Yuki we have a phone do you keep one
end out of the water yeah yeah hoping to
swim with your hand out oh wow and then
and then a but just like I said single
leg stuff so a lot a lot of like
Russians pistol squat jump lunges what
else a bunch of a bunch of old fast
breaks where we're doing this one where
we drop down you run along the bottom of
two dumbbells to the other side you set
one dumbbell up you jump up you bring
one dumbbell out you go back down grab
the other one bring that one out and
then pull both of them out then run back
down and run back out we go that one
fast break kind of mimicking like it was
a basketball court you'd run down you
jump up twice run back jump up twice
yeah and then we have spire man so we
have I mean we they just spider-man's
one where you swim you carry a dumbbell
and you descend into one end you jump up
you grab you get a breath you descend
into the other end and then and then all
these exercises we're able to we to make
them harder we'll do them on an exhale
so you can do so we've ramped up you
know we can either increase weight we
can create increased distance or we can
do a neck do it on an exhale so when you
developed all the stuff did you run all
this down from your own practice from
all trial and error like how did you
develop this well some of them came from
failure so you know you try to do one
move and then you'd fail some of them
came from friends that I was working out
what they would hold well it's tried
this and then we'd modify it
some some of them came from my daughter
I watched my daughter my one daughter
swim down one day and grab a weight and
then try to swim up with it I'm like oh
that's a great move and well you know so
we we we some of it came out of
necessity for movement like certain
dynamic movements that the basketball
guy you know one of my friends needed or
and then so it naturally all the
movements kind of naturally evolved I
think that's why they're all so great
and there's an isolation to each limb so
we have an isolation so you can really
see if the dexterity of your right arm
versus your left arm and how strong it
is versus the other one mmm how strong
one leg is to next to the other one hub
the muck the ranges of motion and the
mobile
we're doing we can do front back flips
and front flips multiple so you jump up
and get a breath and then do multiple
flips and and and extend work time so
that you extend breath work where you'll
do you know like three or four moves in
one on one breath so we have a bunch of
ways to to ramp it up as we evolve
because you know how it is it's like in
any exercise you get proficient and then
you're like well how did I make it
harder well you make it longer you make
it faster you make it heavier I mean
these but because you're in the water we
always have the breath-holding element
and then we have the distance element
and then we have the weight because we
have weights so we have the weight
element so those are different ways that
we can ramp it you know ramp it up so
when you're developing this program are
you writing all this stuff down are you
doing these workouts yourself and saying
okay I really started to fatigue after
thirty of these so we'll try to well I
have a group of four I have a group of
guys at Train that come to my house to
Train in six days a week so there's like
days a week yeah in Malibu and yeah oh
so because this is show Bob loses
summertime right and summertime is when
is really like the season for training
because there's no surf in the
wintertime you're not going to Train and
then have a giant swell and be tired
that would be just stupid
so you never want to let the problem
with it is is that you get you know I I
tell people I go listening probably in
any sport you're get the most out of
shape during the season you're in a
certain kind of shape game shape but
you're really not in shape because you
can't you can't have a regimented
workout routine if you're competing no
right and so and so and in my case the
oceans dictating the performance right
so you can be all there's going to be
twenty feet next you know in three days
and then all of a sudden you show that
it's not there's no surf it's only half
the size or the wind screws it up or
something so you get all that build-up
so we have to do things to kind of
exhaust the energy but you can't be in a
nice Monday Wednesday Friday pool
training with Tuesday Thursday Saturday
you know lifting mobility and yoga and
whatever you know it's like you can't
get into that kind of a rhythm and and
Hawaii's not conducive for that anyway
it's part of the beauty of it is like I
always so beautiful let's go to the
thing we're gonna go down the coast
because it's a nice
it's a good day for fishing go to the
mountain there's just so much more other
activities to be done we're in this
environment you're in the desert and
it's kind of like okay it's a June gloom
no problem that bang iron or you know
ride the mountain or do whatever you're
going to do so that's then but in that
summer time routine I have a group of
guys and that we bounce everything off
of each other so I'll do we'll do 10 and
he'll do 10 and he'll do 10 I'll be like
yeah that was good okay up the way okay
all 20s too many are that weights too
much or that way it's enough and so we
just kind of it's evolved naturally that
way and then and then I got some other
friends that are a little bit more
professional we have a my friend of mine
PJ who's been involved with all of the
stuff around xbt to write programming
and do that kind of stuff that chain he
trains a lot of fighters and straight
and mobility and and and uh and some
other training stuff so he he'll come in
and they start to really break it down
and make it you know into a real program
but we have routines that we do we have
circuits that we do that we know you
know how you know when we're taxed and
you know it's an interesting thing about
what the pool really teaches you is it
you know you have a volume of energy
available we go okay well you know you
got a 50 gallon tank and I can do three
or four drills in ten or fifteen minutes
that you just there's none left
you didn't blew all 50 gallons right you
do extended breath holds with super hard
work where I can you know make the give
you some things that are a little
lighter and now we can take that 50
gallon tank we can drag it out and make
it make it last two hours right because
we do these we're doing higher volume
less weight and so we're you know
breathing more often we can expand that
thing so everything in between just blow
on that whole tank up at once right
through real intense breath hole with
maximum weight is you know max breath
hold max wait max wrap okay we're good
we're I mean it's and I think lifting is
the same way you know it's like how many
max lifts do you have in a certain day
and how many per week do you have it's
real tangible in the pool the pools real
you know the
thing about the pose it doesn't get you
don't get muscle soreness because of
that compression so you don't get that
like wow I'm sorry you getting you go
almost every single person that comes
and it's one of the well I always say
you know you got to call me and tell me
if you fell asleep at lunch and every
guy every every guy every person you
know I was in the thing I'm just in
their desk at the work or whatever just
fall asleep like guaranteed and some
guys you know all I fell asleep for an
hour I said 20 minutes 10 min you know
but everybody why is 99 you know I don't
know I think it has a lot to do with the
oxygen and that and and and and the
taxation of that environment but it
exhausts you in in a in and like a
terminal way like it's it's it's a
complete exhaustion and I and I don't
know why part of it is the threat of
being underwater part of it is though
that the water is sucking the the
calories out of you you know because
it's like when they we're talking to
Phelps about burning all those calories
well you know three-quarters of the
calories he was burning is because he
was in a 70 degree pool and people go
let's our 75 degree pool and I go yeah
but the body is 98.6 so for the body to
keep itself warm over in three hours
it's it's at 75 that's 20 degree
differentiation you got to keep the
body's just working to keep itself warm
in that and that and because the water
affects you more than the air it's and
you know it's it's more intense on your
system they just you just get tapped so
the the water temperature the the the
oxygen load the the psychology of being
underwater with weights you know the
workload that it's taking all those
things play into just full thorough
exhaustion and nothing nothing I do
exhaust me more thoroughly and yet more
kind of comfortably than that because
I'm not you know how explain
well you're not whoo get you don't come
if I train that hard in the gym I'll
feel hurt I'll be I'll be wounded I'll
be a little like and if I move wrong or
something of you at all you know you
feel like something you tweak something
so this allows you to do this six days a
week that's one of the reasons why well
it actually helps flush the other
when you're doing other land training so
he actually helps support your but no I
mean we're not doing we're doing pool
training probably every other day it's
just I end up turning the kind of I love
being in the pool so much that we have
we do a thing called surf and turf so so
we have surf and turf where you're doing
like some sort of some sort of Burpee
press it's some kind of lifting on the
deck into the water and then a routine
in the water and then back on the deck
and back in the water you might be doing
we have one a move called a seahorse
where you hold a dumbbell between your
legs and then you hold your feet up in
front of you and you swim like this with
a dumbbell in your lap oh wow and then
when you get to the other side then you
do push-ups so you do push-ups on that
side you you seahorse over you do push
up that side seahorse back you do that I
mean you just blow up right so we well I
I think I enjoy that that part of it
just just being creative making it fun
making it interesting that's the part
that really is enticing just the dredger
II and the monotony like when you said
oh yeah swimming laps I go that's just
like drudgery just like which there's a
mentality for that I'm good I can be
good at that like I can get on a I can
get on my board and you know I've done
some endurance stuff I paddled 22 hours
one time I've done some uh new hours
yeah oh yeah
so I've done I did I actually did a
thing on Hawaii called the Hawaii five
we call it the y500 we started in the
South Point of Big Island and we biked
across the Big Island so 125 miles then
we paddled to Maui 38 miles and then we
biked across Maui and then we paddled to
Molokai then we biked across Molokai
then we paddled to Oahu then we biked
across Oahu then we paddled to Kauai
then we biked across Hawaii we did that
in five days so that's what's day six
like that's when you start coming good
it's the end but you're but you're good
no it's late it's what you said about
you know about ready yeah Eddie about
Eddie when you know you all of a sudden
you're the body's like oh is this our
new house or is this is this what we do
what we just what we do yeah once we
once the body makes that decision all of
a sudden you're good like okay I'm I'm
good I mean the hands had blisters
everywhere but the the body felt like oh
this is where we you know I did the
three Scots America with on with wild
then he talked me and doing I didn't
want to do it and he suckered me into
into it and he said because I was like
he had other plans he was because he was
an operator and he's like he wanted me
to go in this race and there's four it's
a four-man team you know Ram is called
the Race Across America it's a bicycle
race across America you start in
Oceanside Ninh and Delaware and so you
biked across and each guy just goes like
45 45 45 45 and then you chase the other
guy when he's riding and you get out and
then you just go full-bore as hard as
you can for 45 minutes the next guy gets
on he goes but you're riding in the car
chase and the other guy and you do this
day and night right all you're doing a
day and night and he you know we the
first couple days we felt pretty sick
like you felt you don't even you don't
even want water like water you look at
water and you're like that's when I
really learned to appreciate kombucha
but but we don't even want water and
then day two day three all of a sudden
day three you're like wow I'm summing
thing goes away I'm ready to go I feel
good let's go and but it was that thing
about the body being comfortable with
that that kind of drudgery but I don't
mind the the monotony of that of that
kind of like hey I'm gonna go that on it
and just you're gonna paddle for but if
I do it in my in a routine like
something that's a little more not out
of a mission right then I'm like then
you just you know I don't want to go in
and do the same lifting routine did day
and and and it's just not I prefer
creating new stuff and making it
interesting and and having that that the
distraction of the of the challenge of
something new and keep me interested mmm
I did it make sense do you what about
massage yeah love that live for it what
kind of yet only good ones like deep
tissue I've done it kind of almost every
single new dolly you can think it's
usually about the person as
about the person that gives it and and
and how if they're healers are not so I
just try to find healers and when you
say healers what do you mean the people
that that do it because they're into
taking care of people then they're not
doing it as a profession like they don't
do it to make money they make money as a
side product but they're healers that
they that they just have a gift that
they you know you go you you know you
can you can get ten massages right and
and and then and they're all can be good
but there's just one of the people that
they just have a skill they know how to
touch they know what it is they know
where they know how to feel it they know
how to that they know how to use the
system you know I've done that might the
thing that I'm crazy about right now is
I'm crazy about dry needling that's the
thing that has been the the most
profound I mean I've done you know I've
done Oh
shiatsu and acupuncture and the thing
and just I mean I you know and and
Rolfing and I've done the ten series
three times and I mean I've had all
those different modalities but dry
needling has been you know and then I
have another person that that just does
that I don't even know what cart it is
it's just massage and she just she just
is able to understand the tissue know
out and she's relentless and yen and and
won't won't leave and won't leave it and
tell everything releases and she knows
how to release in dry needling to people
dry needling is a technique where they
use acupuncture needles on soft tissue
and they touch the trigger point and get
the system the stuff to release like
it's a it's not acupuncture it's it's a
it's a different modality that that that
I'm not sure if it's what states it's
legal or not in I know most of the
athletes that I know that you do it a
lot in Australia they do it in Europe oh
she's on some places huh some places
it's not legal yeah why I have no idea
probably cuz it worked and somebody's
threatened by it really I mean isn't
that usually the case well I guess where
someone doesn't understand it and they
think someone's a quack and
those needles all these people you don't
know what you're doing there's no
science here yeah well there's some
science behind it and and it but it
absolutely is the most functional I mean
I got friends with giant knots and their
traps in this you know one session the
thing goes away extremely really intense
yeah intense intense but it but but dry
needling is you know if I ever have my
friend who's really good at it comes
through I'll stare her your way cuz it's
it's it's it's it's the most effective I
mean I I've you know I think as someone
that you're always looking right we're
always looking like what what you know
hey we need the heat we need the ice we
need the thing we need the food we need
the thing where's the tumor where is it
you know we always are looking and so
when I run into things that are
effective I'm I cherish them because I
know that you know and the problem is
you have a high bar because when you've
experienced great work you just you
can't you go get somebody who does a
little mushy mushy and you're just like
don't have time for that well lay all
lay still for three hours if I know
somebody knows what they're doing but I
won't be there for twenty minutes if
somebody if I feel like it's like your
half-assed night yeah which is a lot of
it you know a lot of that stuff's out
there and and no fault to the people I
think part of it is just they probably
just don't know and their intentions
it's got to be your intentions why why
do you do it yeah it's interesting how
some people can just find those problem
areas they just so it's right here and
you're like how do you know they know
yeah and they and they feel it with
their hands they see with their hands
and they know right where it's like
connecting where to dig in and how to
release it yeah that's an art that's my
same facial release it's real it's real
when you're good and you and somebody
really knows what they're doing that's
why I say more about the people than the
technique because there's that I can
yeah yeah yeah but but give me the
person and but that dry needling is is
it's the most effective of any of the
of the stuff that I've used it and this
person is in California they use the
girl that helps me is in Hawaii and then
they but they teach in Colorado it's
actually a it's actually a technique
that they developed some guys that were
studying pain is from my understanding
they were studying pain and so what they
did is they had all these people that
were injured in different areas and then
they injected them with different
solutions and they injected and with
like a placebo and like saline and
novocaine and all kinds of different
things and everybody got better and what
they realized is that it was the needle
and the acuteness of the needles
themselves in the areas that were
painful that were causing that was
causing this release and so they
developed the whole pain referral chart
and and then they developed this this
technique and it's it's because
everybody always can miss confuse you
know confuse it with acupuncture they
all yeah keep on trying that's not I can
puncture this is in the soft tissue
when I get punctures on the meridians
and on the electrical system right this
is soft tissue this is this is to get
the soft tissue to release but they'll
take stuff that you've had that's just
like a cable somewhere are not or
something that just won't release and
but it's you know in its back to that no
pain no gain there's always that I got a
lady that does trigger point massage and
it's the most painful shit I've ever
experienced in my life
like it's like you just want to quit
absolutely when I get out of there the
next day everything's like loose and
pliable and and I've had things that
I've like I've really injured myself and
she fixed it yeah and then like a day
later like it doesn't hurt anymore I'm
like this is strange for and it's been
her like four months yes so there was
something in there that was not enough
yeah and I always assumed that that's an
injury and sometimes it's not a knee
it's not yeah yeah it's just the tissue
it's just not ready stop yeah yeah well
and this has two dozen would do with the
fascia and some other stuff going on
that that that they have to know how to
release it and sauna seems to help that
quite a bit too and ice crazy the
combination of those two are I mean
that's that's what I found is that sauna
and ice kind of eliminate the need
really to get worked on unless it's
super acute like if it's not if it's
super cute
then there you you you know you need you
need somebody to go in there and you
know put the jackhammer on it but but if
it's not a cute like that just the
normal maintenance and and and actually
preventing the stuff from getting to a
point where you really need to get the
work the song ends magic that's that is
crazy good and it seems to me that when
I've been ramping up the temperature
like into 200s and now in the - - it
seems more effective more effective yeah
more effective well it's more intense
yeah not torture yeah more torture more
results but I'm a little bit you know
and I don't know maybe something you can
find out but I this thing with I'm a
little rocky right now with the with the
infrared I was gonna ask you that I'm a
little rocky with the infrared right now
only because of just some of the
something that happened to me with my
skin and then and then met I met a
dermatologist that was pretty educated
and he was saying that you know that
that that he says is it damages the
collagen and infrared does damages the
collagen in your body he's way affects
the structure of the skin because of the
penetration of it and that the most you
should ever do is this is done these are
my words but the the most you should
ever do is is is you know three times a
week for 15 minutes at the most for
infrared for yeah and and he was saying
that and you should never look at it as
well Jesus like it's harmful to the eyes
yeah so so I got a regular solid just
because the protocol that the dr. Rhonda
Patrick was talking about for those I
guess it was a was it
Norway those days yeah that was all
regular songs yeah I'm like well if
they're getting these results from
regular song I'll just do regular sauna
well I like regular anyway because it
just seems like it's natural it's kind
of like ice like people go and cry oh
hey you want to go cry oh I go I have a
nice tub I don't need crown and by the
way if if you want to do a real ice
going on ice tub cuz cryos cakewalk
compared to a real ice tub you know we
do cry out for a couple minutes yeah and
you don't have heat next to it in it I
mean you can don't only do ice for a
couple minutes till it's like the thing
about cryo though is you can do cryo and
then work out
yeah before you can do I some work out
too and you know yeah I do that all the
time got we incorporate ice into
training and so one of the things that
we do is we'll three quarters into the
training we'll just pull out right when
you start to kind of lose some of your
juice and you'll go do like three
minutes and come out and then try and
you have another gear so that's another
little thing to incorporate ice within
that within that system or we'll do ice
as we as we train as one of the
station's imagine doing a circuit and
one of the stations is you know we are
doing a we're doing a horse a couple
months ago on the last season maybe
buddy we were doing uh like an Iron
Horse we're standing in a horse position
with your arms and we'd stand in that
position for 10 or 15 when it's a horse
position when you're on your horse
stance yeah yes yeah okay so we're in a
horse stance what are you doing with
arms with the arms are straight out okay
you're holding okay so called the iron
horse whatever just standing in the
horse so you stand in the horse position
ten minutes going the ice three minutes
oh come back outs and they won't send
another thing going like in the ice
stand in the thing blow you up explode
you like crazy so I mean there's always
like I said there's always a little you
know a little hook to give it but the
ice to incorporate it within your
training I think it's phenomenal like
people that's why I question warming up
because people go warm um how about do
three to five minutes ice and then go
start all your cardio and start to train
right now your body just be freaked out
freaked out but it's but you the ice
makes you stimulated like when you feel
the system it's it's cold but you're not
cold like it's trying to heat up yeah
Michael Phelps in the pool heat up its
revving so there's all that that's like
the science of the fun you know the the
for me I I look at it like a laboratory
it's a little bit like being an artist
in playing with all that stuff I that
brings makes that keeps me interested
it keeps me excited about about learning
learning because I think it's about
learning it's all about learning yeah
learning about your body and talking
about what's effective yeah well that's
why I'm glad this guy's like you're out
there the guinea pigs
yeah well the guinea pigs an awesome
guinea pigs again or in my age yeah yeah
I know that it's pop yeah it's darkness
1:55 absolute
long after that well listen man thank
you thanks for coming here thanks for
doing that I want to do your workout too
yeah well your you have an open
invitation
all right I'm happen I got a I got a
stove after the fires I'm still cleaning
so I got this weekend I should we're
doing a cert so we're training some
people this weekend but after this
weekend I'm open for the summer so if
you you want to come and you know
beautiful I will do that bin let's make
it happen brother I relish it Aloha to
you too is thank you thank you
hi everybody
[Music]